The first meadow is a marshy mess, but after that the trail is in great shape. The bugs were awful along the trail but not bad once at Grand Park thanks to a cool breeze. Started at 8 am and came upon a mama bear and two cubs just off the trail about 100 yds past Lake Eleanor. Mama  and one cub ran right, other cub ran left of the trail- not ideal, so we backed down the trail a ways and kept her in our sights- she didn't appear agitated or frightened. Eventually the three got back together and headed deeper into the forest.  Saw them again on our descent, at the end of the first meadow. Mama was munching and cubs were playing. She watched us briefly but was undeterred. Beautiful to watch them. Good reminder to make noise along the trail- we got lazy about it as we were so close to the camp and could hear people talking. Oh yeah- the mountain was out and the flowers were lovely. And also- bear cubs!!Well...we got to Mount Rainier Tuesday morning intending to reserve a spot at Golden Lakes campground for a nice overnight hike.  When we arrived at the Ranger Station, we were dismayed to see that almost ALL the campgrounds were full.  We had two backup options (also on the Wonderland trail) and both of those were taken too!  This was a dramatic change from the week before when Yellowstone Cliffs was the only full campground we saw on the list.  Oops!  Ipsut Creek had some space, but we'd been there two weeks in a row for day hikes and just wanted somewhere different.  We finally (after some deliberation) settled on Lake Eleanor, a campground we had admired on our way to Grand park before.  It's a bit of a drive from Carbon River back around through Enumclaw and into the White River entrance, and we didn't arrive at the trailhead until noon.  It's particularly swampy this year on the trail from parking to Lake Eleanor.  Be warned: one wrong step sunk me into mud over my ankle and into my hiking boot!  The trail is soupy, the logs and stepping stones are slick, and hiking poles or a willingness to fully embrace the mud is necessary.  Beyond this section, it was great to see that most of the downed trees have been cleared from the trail.   A welcome change from when we hiked this trail in early June.  Thanks trail maintenance crew! There's been one dramatic change for the worse since June, though.  The mosquitos were just terrible!  They're constant companions into Lake Eleanor and up through the climb to Grand Park.  They harassed us despite our repeated reapplications of bug repellent.  Lake Eleanor was (as always) gorgeous, but the water was completely covered in swarms of mosquitoes!  Our Lemon/Eucalptus spray provided some respite (eg. followed by 5 mosquitos instead of mobbed by 50), the Picaridin was more effective, but still not enough to keep them from searching for some spot you missed re-applying it.  Still, it was worth it!  Grand Park was perfect, and Mount Rainier looms over the long meadow.  We stopped for lunch at the junction with the Northern loop and we were treated to a black bear and her two cubs about a half mile back scooting across the meadow and into a stand of trees.  Several times she would stop and turn around as the little ones galloped to catch up.  Pretty cool!   We still had lots of day left and weren't eager to return to the mosquitoes, so we turned South at this point and headed to Berkeley Park.  This part of the Northern Loop winds through sparse tree cover at the end of the meadow before descending into Berkeley Camp.  The camp looked pleasant, next to a nice rushing stream.  Some mosquitos, but not too aggressive.  The Park was gorgeous, dense with wildflowers and rocks towering overhead.  No views of Rainier from here.  The trail was pleasant and there was almost no climbing/descending, so if you're up for a it at the end of Grand Park, Berkeley is a nice way to extend your hike. By the time we'd made it back through Grand Park and down to Lake Eleanor we could see that if anything the mosquito situation had gotten worse.  Clouds of them spiraled low over the lake and we could see the surface dotted with the splashes of fish feasting on them.  Well, at least the fish were enjoying themselves.  Our evening dip had lost its appeal, and spending the time hiding out in the tent seemed no better.  We decided to give up on the overnight and trek the mile back out to the car.  Hopefully we'll have better luck next week.  This one turned out to be training hike for us with our packs loaded for an overnight.Found hiking poles at Lake Eleanor. Comment with an email address if you think they are yours.The WTA guide says this hike is 1,100 foot elevation gain, 8 miles round trip. The mileage sounds right, but I sure would appreciate someone doing a more accurate elevation check, it felt like a lot more. I hiked with my 70-year-old friend, thinking that 1,100 feet was perfect for her, but between the first meadow and Grand Park I was thinking otherwise. There's a loss of 100-200 feet after Eleanor Lake that may have added to my perception that it was considerably more. The other issue is mud. My fellow WTA brethren and sisteren gave accurate warning about having to deal with mud on this trail. My companion had some trouble negotiating the necessary detours--there were two places where there was little choice but to go far around the mud hole and walk along some wet, slick logs of different widths, two other places where it was possible to simply walk along the edge of the muck. The other issue yesterday was seasonal--hordes of large horseflies the moment we got out of the car, and non-stop flying bugs throughout the hike. The log we found to sit on at Grand Park for lunch was home to a colony of red ants--aggressive! In a few weeks there will be fewer problems with the flying kind. And the reward *was* Grand: a wonderful meadow with an exceptional view of The Mountain, and several miles of strolling through forest worthy of National Park status. It was a Sunday, so there were 15 cars at the trailhead, but things never felt too crowded.  Looks like a wonderful trail for two carloads of people to do, one starting at the Eleanor Creek trailhead and the other at Sunrise.Wonderful hike to Grand park.  Overall the trail is in good shape and snow free.  The initial mile and first meadow have a few muddy spots with one or two areas that are a bit more challenging to cross without soaking your shoes.  Waterproof hiking boots would be ideal.  A few downed trees but nothing difficult to cross.  The mosquitos on this trail were as bad as any we've encountered in Washington over the past two years.  That being said still much better than most trails in the midwest or east coast and were more of an annoyance than a deterrent.   The hike itself was spectacular and one of my favorite views of mount rainier.  We were quite surprised how few people were on this trail for a summer Saturday with nice weather.    While we didn't see any animals I couple in front of us had run across a bear.  There are wildflowers blooming throughout the park, mostly in patches.  Looks like it is likely around peak at this time. The road to the trail was passable for all vehicles although we did have to dodge a couple larger potholes.  The trailhead is not marked and leaves next to Eleanor creek.Hit the trailhead about 10:15 a.m. with a group and made a leisurely trip through the woods, past Lake Eleanor and on up to Grand Park itself.  The weather was perfect with sunny skies and warm temperatures.  here are a number of downed trees, but none that are impassable.  Areas of the trail are quite swampy and some are pretty deep.  About 1/2 way to Grand Park there is a lovely little lake on the left of the trail and we saw two bears.  Once up on the knoll of Grand Park we noticed off to the distance another bear just quietly making his way along the tree line in our direction.  The bears were aware of us and not phased by our being there.  They were not a threat at all.    Shortly after starting back down, the thunderstorms rolled in very quickly with lightening, thunder and then the hail arrived!  Twice we bailed under the trees for protection from the hail.  We ran into a group of 3 ladies who had hiked in in only shorts and tank tops so we were able to help them with extra clothes and rain gear and plastic ponchos.  They then came down the now treacherous trail that had 2 inches of hail and lots of water running down the trail! It is not an adventure without a story!(Revisited on Friday, July 15th - update for this visit at bottom) Sunday, July 10th:  Clouds & rain made this a "for those who really, really love the Pacific Northwest" type of hike.  We've seen Grand Park from the Fremont Lookout, Burroughs Mtns, Skyscraper Pass & Mountain, etc. - but had never visited.  We arrived at the smallish parking area by the well marked trailhead at about noon - with only two other vehicles present.  I did mention rain and clouds?   Such conditions aren't preferable, but every once in awhile they help to remind me of the deep and multi-faceted beauty of the PNW and Mt. Rainier N.P in particular.  The fir, pine, briskly tumbling creeks, and densely vegetated forest floor become the focus on days like this - and they don't disappoint. The road to the trail (variations of FS 73) is not bad at all.  About four miles in from 410, there is about a mile where there are some potentially troublesome holes in the gravel road - but so long as you're not zipping along too terribly fast, they are easily navigated (we were in a low, front wheel drive compact sedan).   The trail is very muddy in spots.  Nothing so bad as to require gaitors, but we were glad to have ankle high boots on.  This seems the sort of muddiness that will take a couple weeks of dry weather to resolve.  The spots are maybe a few yards long - and there are only a handful of such spots - most within the first mile from the trailhead.  There also are a few downed trees (six to eight or so), but these are easily navigated.  My 5'4" wife was able to easily climb or "saddle" over the ones that were too low to stoop under. At the Lake Eleanor campground, take the trail to the left as you enter the area.  We made the mistake of continuing to walk through the campground; if you reach the sign pointing the way to the toilet - you've missed the turn in the trail.  Also - once we found the correct trail out of the campground, it goes down for about 3/4 mile or so, rather than up ("up and up") as the WTA trail description says.  This caused us to wonder whether we were (again) on the wrong trail.  After about 1 mile - and shortly after the downward portion of the "post-campground" trail - we came to the first meadow.  From that point onward, the trail moved upwards - at times somewhat steeply.  But it is a pretty easy walk - even in the rain. We reached Grand Park at about the 3.75 mile mark (on my GPS).  Unfortunately for us, we could only see about 1/4 to 1/2 mile ahead - and The Mountain and surrounding peaks were completely obscured.  Nonetheless, the meadow/park is beautiful.  We'll most definitely return on a nicer day later this summer. We encountered very few on the trail this day (3 small groups of hikers) ...  but you can tell from prior trip reports that on a nice day, this hike is becoming VERY popular.  It's a relatively short walk on a relatively gradual incline through a beautiful forest - with what surely is a stunning reward at the end when the PNW gods determine that you/we are, indeed, worthy.  Not this day. UPDATE - July 15th Revisit:  Returned with family on day that promised a bit better chance at good viewing weather.  Mud had begun to dry (still grateful for ankle-high boots), and mosquitoes were swarming anyone who stopped, ... and the sun was out.  Gorgeous views of Rainier and the surrounding ridges & peaks.  Although we saw no large wildlife in Grand Park, we saw plenty of evidence of elk along the trail.    GREAT destination - and a relatively easy hike.Nice hike after a few potholes on drive up forest service road 73. There were a few downed trees across the trail to Lake Eleanor with some mud and water across trail in a few locations. Glad we had waterproof boots today. We were fortunate to see Mount Rainier upon entry into Grand Park.Most beautiful day of the week we chose to venture out to Grand Park! After Greenwater, about 10 miles out you come to FR 73, easy to find! The road is gravel, with some minor rough spots, a few potholes, and some rocky areas but over all, not challenging to drive the 9 miles in to the trail head! I have a Jetta and made it just fine, without worry. We arrived around 8:30am, and there were already about 6-7 vehicles parked, but we're able to still get into a parking space! The trail head is across from the parking area next to the creek! We took our time getting through this hike, having no time restraints and taking stops here and there to enjoy the streams, creeks, and meadows along the way. Birds, frogs and chipmunks were abundant! There are a few muddy spots, and one really bad swampy area, with poles, and strategic stepping it is doable without getting submerged to the ankles in mud, but use caution and go slow, my sister lost her entire shoe in the mud and ended up soaking her feet completely, she wasn't careful, and tried to find a better way around. Lake Eleanor was gorgeous and we took the time to stop and enjoy it both on the way up and on the way back! Near there, you'll find a toilet properly labeled along the trail. We arrived at Grand Park around 11:15, and spent a good hour and a half there enjoying the wild flowers and and vast beauty of this destination. Heading back around 12:45, we passed a few more hikers coming up, but all in all very few people were seen along the way, it was like having this majestic hike all to ourselves! We made it back to the car around 2:45, where there were a few more cars parked, but not bad! I loved this hike-so much to see along the way, plenty of places to stop and take in the sights! I can't wait to do this hike again in the future!Headed out late in the afternoon/evening to check on the wild flowers and see if they were at peak yet. Made pretty quick work of this trail as we were short on time. As most have reported wear your boots. The trail is quite muddy in some spots and even with caution your feet will get wet and muddy. Several downed trees across the trail but nothing to difficult.The road to the trail head is in ok shape, (I've seen it better)  a few rough spots and pot holes but just use caution and all is good. The flowers are blooming and there are some nice patches to enjoy but I would not say they are peak yet. Another week or so. The mosquitos were a major annoyance, not the worst I've seen them but if I stopped on the trail they were aggressive. Bug spray seemed to do the trick.  Hike On!!! Finally saw the elk to the right of the trail just as you enter the meadow. Holy Cow the male has some enormous antlers...Recommended!  This is a fairly leisurely hike and even though we were out on a misty day and couldn't see the Mountain, the wildflowers and vast open meadows were worth it all on their own.  The trail was in pretty decent shape, but there were a few swampy areas from the recent snow melt.  In terms of mosquitoes, this wasn't the worst I've seen by a long shot, but they were still annoying and even after liberal application of Jungle Juice I came away with half a dozen or so bites.   I will be trying this one again on a sunny day to get that mountain view!This is a favorite hike, and even though the low clouds kept us from seeing the amazing Mt Rainier views it was still a wonderful day! Previous trip reports said that the trail is muddy between the trail head and the lake.... Having hiked this before I didn't pay much attention because it's always a little muddy there... But it is REALLY muddy!! Passable, but very muddy. There are also many trees down on the trail. All can be easily climbed over, under or walked around. Lots of wildflowers blooming; bear grass, Avalanche lilies, lupine, magenta paintbrush, yellow flowers whose name I don't know, and mountain Heather beginning to bloom too. A pair of hikers coming down the trail as we were headed up saw a bear in the first meadow. We saw bear scat more than once, but no bears. The mosquitos were pretty thick before and around the lake, but not bad after that. A couple more days of sunshine and the flowers will really be impressive!It was my first time hiking anything at Mount Rainier! I absolutely loved it and would recommend to anyone. Well worth it. Just bring a good bug repellent and I would advise wearing boots as there are some muddy patches. Drive slow! But have a good time. Highly rewarding.I'm usually bad about writing trip reports, but I just wanted to get on here to clarify a few things I saw in previous trip reports. The road in is long and gravel but in pretty good shape. There are a few potholes here and there but there is always a way around, and there were no rough sections or washboard. Once you make the turn from Hwy. 410 it's really hard to get lost as you basically follow the same road until you get to Eleanor Creek (the second creek crossing: Huckleberry Creek is the first). We went in the middle of the holiday weekend and there were quite a few cars there but it was by no means overflowing, so I have to think it would be rare that you'd have to park any appreciable distance from the trailhead. Trail conditions are great. There may have been a little snow a week ago but as of now there is none on the trail. At a couple points it's still close enough to make the trail damp and muddy, but that's it. There is also one big mud puddle very close to the entrance, but even that's pretty easy to cross, and the rest of the mud is not worth mentioning. There are quite a number of downed trees of various sizes and states of decomposition that you have to figure out how to get past. We did a variety of over, under, and around. There were two or three spots where the detour was substantial enough that we momentarily lost the trail on the way out. It might be a good idea to look back at the detours you take to see what they look like from the other direction. I feel like we get spoiled for bugs in Western Washington. We took the bug spray advice seriously and there were very few that bothered me, especially away from the creek. When we left it was still only early evening, but either my bug spray wore off or it was just the time of day for mosquitoes. Easily the most mosquitoes were in the last half-mile of the hike out, along the creek in the woods. Overall they were not a problem, and barely noticeable. The description says that past Lake Eleanor there are increasingly large meadows; this is not quite true. There is one sizeable meadow with two ponds about 3/4 of a mile past the lake, and then something better described as a clearing about a mile further on. The clearing marks the beginning of the most substantial elevation gain; up to that point we'd been saying what an easy hike this was, but that ended up being not quite true. Once you get to Grand Park--holy cow! The city parks in Seattle are not so well-manicured. It's a beautiful green space in and of itself, but of course the selling point is the view of Rainier, so big you feel like you have to lean back to see it all. The wildflowers seemed to be just starting, and I imagine it will be beautiful for a while. I can't do it justice so I'll just stop there, and say go experience it for yourself. On the way out were were warned that someone had seen a small bear far off in the first meadow, but by the time we got back there she or he was long gone; I'm sure the reader understands our mixed feelings about that. A great hike for the holiday weekend. Go do it. Have fun.This is a VERY HIGH reward hike!  The trail is steep up to and beyond the lake but you hike out into the first meadow and that provides a welcome break and your first view of Rainier.  The trail then returns to the trees for more uphill hiking for 3/4 mile or so until you break out into Grand Park and the incredible views.  There are lots of avalanch lilies in the little chute just before Grand Park and lots of other flowers starting to bloom in the park itself.  The mosquitos are thick in the trees so bring along a good insect repellant. Downed tree count: 30 between the trail head and the lake.  29 between the lake and grand park.Forgot to add the picsIf you like donating blood, you'll enjoy this hike! The mosquitoes were terrible even with bug spray. The hike it's self was quite muddy in places, but the kids thought that was extra fun. Very quiet & pretty lake with several nice campsites. Very little beach access, but we managed to find a spot big enough to enjoy lunch & swim. Not sure I'd take my kids on this one again though because of the bugs & limited beach.A very nice hike, great weather allowed us to walk with no problems.Very muddy in some places and about 15-20 trees down across the trail to jump and pass under.Bugs were a pain, but only because we forgot the repellent. Still some spaots with snow, that might require some extra attention when comming down. Was crowded due to the amazing weather and felt awesome to see several hilers along the way with us.What a beautiful hike on a beautiful, sunny day!  I made it just fine up the forest service road in my sedan. There were the typical potholes that you can easily avoid if you pay attention. Also, a couple places were rocky, not a big deal if you slow down. Overall I have definitely been on worse roads! As far as the trail goes, it was muddy, wet and there were a couple of snow fields to cross and trees to jump over. Poles would have been helpful but not necessary.  A couple of muddy places turned into swamps like ponds that required some navigating and the snow was for the most part compact but is definitely melting quickly which made it interesting coming down.  It was all worth it and just made it more interesting but I would definitely recommend boots for the next couple of weeks! I would also recommend bug spray as the mosquitoes were in full force for pretty much the entire hike!  Just a note: You can easily miss the trail head as its on the left side of the road, facing the opposite direction, immediately before Eleanor Creek. We got there early so there was plenty of parking but it does get full easily so make sure to park respectively.   Happy hiking!Excellent hike! Very high rewards for only a bit of effort. As the previous trip report mentions, the road does indeed have potholes, but I think it's in fine condition. I made it to the TH in a '91 volvo with no issues, though certainly a bit more slowly than the trucks.  Other things to mention: there's a bit of snow to cross towards the end but it's not a problem. Lots of mud in the beginning to bring out your inner toddler. And Lake Eleanor makes a great swim to/from your car. Bug spray would be helpful!Great day for a hike, and a lot of other folks thought the same thing.  I've never seen Grand Park so busy, but I'm also not used to hiking on weekends.  There was some mud and snow on the trail, and some blowdown to duck under, but nothing too bad.  The weather was glorious and the mountain put on a nice show.  There was a group of people who had a dog at Grand Park.  When we told them dogs aren't allowed they first claimed that they didn't see the signs, then changed their story and claimed it was a "comfort animal".  My wife got pretty vocal with the dingbats, and then as we were parting ways the old guy in the group shouted out, "Go Bernie!!"  I was perplexed at what exactly that could mean.  At first I thought he was a Bernie supporter, but upon further reflection I think it was meant as some sort of insult.  Hard to tell.  I replied, "Make America great again!!" and we headed on down the trail while the old guy dropped f-bombs in our general direction.  Just another lovely day in nature.Super muddy in the first mile of the trail, boots recommended and we wished we hadn't left our trekking poles in the car. Poles would be nice for the patches of snow further up. Gorgeous Rainier views across the valley, and a few early wildflowers but it wasn't yet in full bloom.It's definitely a beautiful area, and we enjoyed the trip overall. Just be aware - the main roadway to the trail is actually a lengthy gravel road that turns rocky in some sections. It's not paved. 4-wheel drive and a truck or jeep would do better on these roads. There are also numerous potholes and some cliffs off to the side as you get closer to the trail. Aside of the rocky drive in, it's a lovely spot to explore.Gorgeous hike! Up towards the top it gets a bit difficult because of tge uphill and snow but, absolutely worth itThe trail up to the lake was rather soggy but cleaned up just before the lake. Most of the snow is gone and caused no trouble along the way. The Park was quite something to see, I got up earlier enough to catch a herd of elk(15-20). They disappear into the tree as I walked by. I continued beyond grand park, the trail to berkeley park was clear however the camp sites were snowed in.Grand Park was one of our favorites last year, and it gave us a wonderful afternoon hike this time!  The road to the trailhead (Forest Road 73) isn't paved, but it's in relatively good shape and we were able to negotiate it in our VW Golf if we took the bumpy parts slowly enough.  An unexpected treat on the drive was spotting a doe with her new fawn!  Pretty cool.  The weather was sunny as we drove, temp dropping to mid forties as we neared the hike, and a steady hail started falling (surprise!) really the moment we got out of the car.  A chilly start to our hike! The trail from the road up to Lake Eleanor is quite swampy, something I remember from a year ago but had forgotten right up until we had to start stepping along the branches and stones placed amid the muck by others also trying to keep their shoes clean.  The lake was beautiful and quiet. We continued on towards Grand Park.  As we approached the first meadow with the pond in it the hail started coming down hard!  We hustled through the meadow and back to the relative shelter of the tree cover.  A few patches of snow were visible off trail at this point, though none that we had to pass through.  Lots of signs of animal activity!  Tons of elk prints passing our way through the mud and along the trail, as well as a number of piles of what must have been coyote scat, some quite fresh, and the one we poked through had a few little rodent bones in it.  From Eleanor on up are plenty of downed trees, some easy to cross and others more challenging.  We continued on up the steady climb most of the way to Grand Park, but had to turn back before we reached it.  The weather was cooperating and had turned sunny and beautiful (if still chilly), but we had a hard deadline for dinner plans, so we turned around and hurried back to the car.Took backdoor via Lake Eleanor. About a foot of snow left the last 1/4 mile near the top but totally safe and easy. Grand Park was very wet and nearly snow free. Views are amazing. I did not need traction or snow shoes.Found: article of clothing on the trail between Lake Eleanor and Grand Park. Did you lose something?The directions made the trail easy to find, and the last hiker's trip report (the mountain goat) allowed us to hike the trail after initially losing the trail in the snow pretty early in.  Grand park was beautiful, but this is one that I would save for 4-6 weeks from now, after the snow melts.  The previous trip report mentioned looking for cut logs across the path, which was a key marker for us, along with boot prints in the snow. The first third of the trail was fairly easy, with a couple of small stream crossings. The second third was gradual yet snowy. The last third was the most challenging since it was also uphill, and through deeper and softer snow. My boots sank in about 4-6" with each step, and one bad step too close to a small tree landed me waist deep in the snow. It was easy to roll out of and we combined uphill to grand park. It was still completely covered in snow, yet very pretty.  We had the entire hike to ourselves. Important gear for this one for me was: waterproof boots, gaiters, poles, and it might have been nice to have snowshoes for the last half mile.This is the "Backdoor" approach to Grand Park. Google Grand Park back door for for more details on this hike. Road conditions to Lake Eleanor TH is in great condition with only a few patches of snow that are easily manageable by any car. Will most likely melt completely during the next warm days. Pay attention to the trail once you enter the treeline from the TH as its easy to miss the slight left turn onto the trail and instead continue going straight. If you encounter numerous "big" down trees then you are not on the trail.  There are a few down trees on the main trail but nothing you cannot hop over or under easily. The trail will go in and out of hiding in the intermittent snow but just look for the obvious signs such as man cut trees paving the way up ahead. It would help to have gps tracks to follow but not necessary if you have a good sense of navigation and are already familiar with the trail.  Snow is consistent at around 4880' all the way to Grand Park. No snowshoes were needed as the snow was sturdy enough but some postholing was encountered. With warmer temps postholing could become an issue and snowshoes would be very helpful.  We arrived to Grand Park with Rainier hiding in the clouds and only took time to eat a small snack before returning. Overall the hike was very enjoyable and on a clear sunny day would be much more epic.Enjoyed a weekday hike to Grand Park right before the Thanksgiving holiday. There was snow about halfway up the FS road. We parked and found the snow covered trail to Lake Eleanor. There was a little snow in the first meadow. It got a bit deeper on our way to the second meadow. We wore traction (Trekkers and micro spikes) but the snow wasn't deep enough for snowshoes. Enjoyed a beautiful day and lunch in the sunshine at Grand Park. Didn't see anyone else on the entire day, except a few deer on the way out munching on some grass.  Looking forward to coming back during summer or fall.  It's a beautiful vantage point of the mountain.This hike had been on our list for awhile and we finally made the trek today. While it's probably best to visit in summer during wildflower season, fall provided solitude (for awhile) and still great views. Saw lots of evidence of bears and elk but alas, they did not show themselves to us today. Still, we were treated to some gorgeous views and nice peace and quiet until after lunch when the crowds started to show up. We'll definitely be back.Loop hike up to the summit of Scarface, via Lake Eleanor and Grand Park. We started out on the Lake Eleanor trail from FS Road 73 at about 8am. There were no other cars in the lot when we arrived, and we didn't encounter any other hikers on the way to Lake Eleanor. I was a bit surprised that there weren't any campers at the lake considering the pleasant weather, but it was nice to have the beautiful spot to ourselves on a sunny Saturday morning. Well, we didn't have the camp entirely to ourselves... the camp robber birds were excited to see us there and out in full force! After taking a break at the lake for a bit, we continued on the trail until breaking off towards Scarface. We ascended via a forested ridge, following elk trails through the brush and making our way around a few large rock outcroppings. We caught a glimpse of some elk ahead of us in the trees, and the only other exciting wildlife we encountered were a few ground hornet nests--yikes! I thought that the summit of Scarface was somewhat anti-climactic-- but the journey to get there was fun and interesting. The views from the peak are one sided due to the forest, and it's difficult to even see the lake below. Oh well, there was a nice, sunny meadow with a great view of Mount Rainier just a little ways below the summit which turned out to be a great place to stop for lunch. After lunch, we descended through the brush to Grand Park for some photos and relaxation in the afternoon sun. Gorgeous place, especially with all of the orange and red fall colors! We did encounter a few other small groups on our way back to the trailhead, but it was really a very quiet and uncrowded day in this beautiful corner of the park. Great day!The sun was shining, and the mountain was calling, so we decided to go to Grand Park by the back door.  We made our sandwiches, packed our maps and bags and hit the road by eight.  We arrived at the trailhead by ten, just by the sign for Eleanor Creek, elevation 4300 feet  We started up the trail and arrived at Lake Eleanor in about half an hour.  The lake was lovely and still, reflecting trees and a tiny splash of fall colors.  After taking a few photos, we continued up through the forest and down to the first pretty little meadow, which we called the Grand Parklet.  We kept going, knowing it was only going to get better.  Back in to the forest we went, continuing to gain a little altitude and more openings in the trees, until arriving at the edge of Grand Park.  It was just as gorgeous and magical as we had remembered from years past.  The pure expanse with the backdrop of Mt. Rainier is simply breathtaking.  We enjoyed strolling through the whole of the park, all the way to the junction with the Northern Loop Trail, where we turned left toward Berkeley Park and continued up another hundred feet for our turnaround point.  According to my topo map, the elevation here was 5700 feet.  We picked a lunch spot with a view of the mountain, then retraced our steps and returned.  We got back to the car by three thirty, a great five and half hours in the park.  A note about the directions.  From 410, turn right on forest road 73 and continue about ten miles to a sign for Eleanor Creek.  Park here and start on the unmarked trail.  Do not make any turns off of forest road 73.  More pictures on the link below.Drove up from Olympia with dark clouds in the sky but had burned off by 11am when we reached the trailhead. Amazingly, Google Maps worked all the way up there with no service. I did take screen shots of the directions though just in case. It was easy to find even though the trailhead is unmarked. You know you're on the right path when at .25 mile in you encounter the park boundary sign. Trail was nice, rolling hills most of the way with gorgeous lake Eleanor on the way. Gets a little steep for about .75 miles near the end as you climb up to the meadows. And then BAM! Mt. Rainer in all its glory. Beautiful fall colors. We spent about a half hour eating lunch up there, making the whole trip about 5 hours. It's closer to 10 miles round trip. It was windy in Grand Park so bring layers. Afterwards we drove up to Sunrise for one last look at the mountain. Great day!Wow, this hike really paid off-- despite the clouds and grey, the mountain made a beautiful appearance for a good while once we reached the meadows. It was fun having visuals of Fremont Lookout from there.The gray jays were quite entertaining and on the way back down, we sighted 3 bears. 2 were at the Eleanor Lake group campsite and scurried off into the woods and then just shortly thereafter, another bear crossed the trail ahead of us. It was very exciting and my first time seeing bears in the wild! There were signs of elk EVERYWHERE but no elk sightings.This hike is super easy and mostly flat with the options of adding on more distance once you reach the junction after the meadows. This would be a great trail run.Hiked Grand Park through the backdoor via Lake Eleanor.  Beautiful trail with many rewards along the way.   The weather made the hike challenging, as a storm rolled in during our lunch break with thunder and lightening and hail that followed us 3 miles down the trail.  Many, many signs of elk in the park - but not actual sightings.  We saw a few folks on the trail, including a couple that had camped at Berkley Park and hiked over, we're plotting a shuttle to allow us to the same next year when the flowers are out in their glory.  Be prepared for cold temps and changing weather, seems like autumn has arrived.   We hiked just under 10 miles to the trail junction and clocked 1500 feet of gain with the 'ups' on the return.   A note regarding the driving directions - after turning off 401, stay on FR 73 past the trail head and privy for Skookum Flats - don't veer right as instructed as you'll just be on a rough road that dead ends at the White River.  After about 10 miles, the trail head is on your left just across 'signed' Eleanor Creek.  Parking for half a dozen cars on the right.Smoky, hazy air today, from the statewide wildfires.  Nice hike nevertheless, although we could smell smoke the whole way.  Lots of hikers, probably due to other prime hiking spots temporarily shut down.  Great, easy hike for those who haven't been.This is a beautiful hike.  Full of surprises.  Loved coming out of the forest and into the meadows.  Although we missed the wildflowers, this hike did not disappoint.  The weather was perfect and clear.  Today was a good day.It was a perfect day for a hike.  I tried this hike last summer, but I ran into too much snow to get to the top.  This time I waited a little too late in the season because all of the blooms were gone.  One of these times I will time it right.  The meadows are still impressive even without the blooms.  It's amazing to me how few people hike this trail.  It's an easy hike and the views are excellent.  There is not a lot of parking at the trailhead.Trail is in good condition, the foliage looks like fall already in many areas. The clouds provided nice back drop for us most of the morning. Then got very hazy as we left. Began hiking at 7 AM returned about 1 PM. Encountered many happy hikers along the trail. Early morning reflections on lake were awesome. We also encountered a HUGE flocks of 20+ blue birds in the meadown near silver forest. Just a lovely day in the park. I'm doing hike a thon, if you would like to sponsor me here's the link  https://www.gifttool.com/athon/MyFundraisingPage?ID=1468&AID=3052&PID=515274Our cheerful group of five met up at 5:30 a.m. in Federal Way. This was my first Hike-a-Thon hike of 2015, and I was fortunate to join two adventuresome couples for this 20+-mile trip. We dropped a car at the Huckleberry Creek trailhead on FS 73, then continued up to the Eleanor Creek "back-door" trailhead. Boots on trail about 7:15.  Lake Eleanor was bug-free and glowing in the morning sun. We had Grand Park all to ourselves except for a backcountry camper who hadn't tucked their bright yellow tent into the woods quite far enough. We took a short detour on the Northern Loop Trail to enjoy the views high above Winthrop Creek. Soon after Berkeley Park we began to encounter the crowds. Several "Hellos!" later we reached the junction with the Huckleberry Creek trail and made the short climb above Sourdough Ridge to linger long over lunch and fresh fruit. It was all downhill from there! There's a massive cirque about a mile in that's well worth a side trip. Forest Lake Camp was buggy, and we imagined it's an easy permit to get for the single campsite. Still, there's a bear pole, toilet and nearby water source.   All the trails are in good shape and obstacle-free. Sightings on the Huckleberry Creek trail included a deflated mylar balloon and several wads of used toilet paper not even a foot off the trail. Please remember to Leave No Trace! Our leader cut two of us loose just before the patrol cabin to retrieve the car from our starting point at Eleanor Creek. We were about ten hours on-trail, including the leisurely lunch. Burgers and beers at HopJack's in Bonney Lake made a perfect end to a long day.OH my, this was unforgettable.  Around a 2 hr drive from Seattle, easy driving.  Immeadiate blueberries on the trail for a good 1/2 mile.  The views were outstanding, huge fields, and at the end before going home (or you could do it at the beginning of course) Lake Elenor perfect for a swim (though super muddy funky on the bottom).  Did the whole hike in tevas and tank tops.  A gorgeous Saturday and maybe saw only a dozen people.  Lots of solitude.  Also lots of buzzing bugs around us, but zero mosquitoes (had the deet handy but never needed it).  One nice uphill portion, maybe for 30 minutes, but the rest pretty leisurely.  Took us about 2.5 hours to the turnaround spot (as mentioned in the wta description).  Wild flowers out but not many left, would love to do this in Spring and also in winter with snowshoes.We started at Sunrise and hiked up through to Lake Eleanor, 9 to 10 miles. The trails were in great condition, but bring bug repellent for when you fill water at the creeks. We had the lake (great for a swim!) and campsite to ourselves. The hiking is flat for large portions at a time or slightly down/uphill, which allowed us to keep a fast pace.Did you lose a nice flowered shirt?  Pull over, small print cotton from Old Navy?   Found it on the trail.  respond to this email or this website.  Beautiful area not too hot with breeze.  Just a FEW flowers:  lots of purple gentian I believe it's called.Unfortunately, the wildflowers seem to be dying before they've finished blooming. The wildflowers are the big draw on this hike, and when I did this hike at the same time last year, we all started singing "The Sound of Music" because of the amazing array of blooming beauties.  Sadly, it's obvious that dry conditions are killing the grass, the flowers, and drying up the creek.  I would only recommend this hike now if you are certain it will be a clear day, and you can enjoy the views of Mt. Rainier.  Please note: the first photo is from yesterday. The other photos are from LAST year.Hiked into Mt Rainier's Grand Park via the Lake Eleanor trail. The boot track from road 73 to Lake Eleanor is in good shape and the trail from Lake Eleanor to the junction with the Northern Loop trail is in great shape.Got an early start to beat the heat and the bugs were not too bad. A few flowers left.About 20 minutes in you come to Lake Eleanor, about 30 minutes in things begin to open up, then you reenter moss shrouded forest. About an hour and 10 minutes in the sky is dominated by Mt Rainier with Fremont lookout keeping an eye on things from the left. Hike to the junction with the Northern Loop trail and look back on this huge park like area.Grand Park is a special place and this route offers relatively easy access to this grand meadow and great views of Rainier.The trip was just under 9 miles round trip with gain of just over 1200'.Well I"m still scratching my mosquito bites 5 days later, so I thought I'd write a trip report. I knew it was going to be too hot for hiking with my little dogs so I picked a trail where dogs aren't allowed.  The road to the Eleanor Lake trail head was easy for my little car.  10 miles of dirt road with beautiful views once you start climbing. It took exactly 2 hours to get there from my home in Bothell. When I parked my car, two huge ravens flew up and perched right over the entrance to the trail.  They squawked until I headed in the right direction, as if they were saying, "hey you, it's over here!"  It was quite a welcome!! The trail to the lake has a gentle incline with the sound of the creek and singing of the birds it was absolutely lovely.  Going past the lake, the trail goes down through the woods until it opens into the first meadow, then back into the woods for some uphill hiking. I made it almost to the grand park before I saw my first humans.  They let me know they hadn't seen any other hikers but they did see a bear on the far side of the meadow.  I was ready to turn around and head back with them but decided to act brave and moved forward.  I tried to focus on the blue sky and sunshine, refreshing breeze, and absolute glory of the wildflowers and view of the mountain.  I never saw the bear.  I like to think the ravens would have come back to guide me if that bear was coming my way. After I turned back I passed 4 couples, then when I got back to the lake another small group of hikers.  The trail is in good shape.  Not a speck of trash along the way.  Thank you all for being good stewards. On my drive back down the mountain I saw a big bobcat in the middle of the road.  It stood in the middle of the road like a deer frozen in the headlights.  As I rolled closer, it turned, showed off it's cute little bobbed tail and disappeared into the woods. I mentioned bug bites...  Those little suckers were hungry.  I reapplied bug spray 4-5 times but it didn't stop them.  They even bit me through my clothes.  I'm gonna buy some extra strength stuff before I go again.  And I will definitely go again!The road to the Lake Eleanor trailhead is a little rough in spots, but not too bad overall. There is no parking lot at the trailhead, but there is room for a number of cars to park. The trail begins right off the side of the road by the Eleanor Creek sign. There are a few muddy patches at the beginning of the hike, but the rest of the trail is dry. In just under a mile you reach Lake Eleanor. Continue on through the trees, and reach a small clearing with wildflowers.This is  where you get your first view of Mt. Rainier. Continue on through the meadow, and back into the trees. After a small elevation gain, you will reach a larger clearing and enter Grand Park with stunning views of Mt. Rainier. Glacier Lilies and Indian Paintbrush flowers are in full bloom here. As you continue on, a view of the Fremont Lookout comes into view.  We continued on the trail to the North Loop trail junction, and then continued on the trail towards Berkley Park for about half a mile. At this point, we turned around and headed back. In total, the hike took us about 3 1/2 hours with a few quick stops for photos.We picked a great day for this trail. There were 2 other cars at the trailhead when we arrived mid morning. Like other trip reports have said, despite our dry weather there are two short stretches of the trail early on that are quite muddy. Otherwise the trail is on great shape. Lake Eleanor is lovely! You reach it after an easy mile in the trees. Continue on and you will break out of the trees into an alpine meadow with a small pond, and a glimpse of Mt Rainier. There are wildflowers in bloom but the meadow is fairly dry and the flowers are too. Continue on through another stretch of trees with some elevation gain. As you climb up the trees become less dense and more wildflowers appear, including lots of pretty Glacier Lilies. The flowers are more lovely as you go along. Finally you break out of the trees for good and into Grand Park. The mountain and the wildflowers are spectacular! We continued on the the junction with the Northern Loop trail before turning around and heading back the way we came. We only saw one other hiker who was taking photos in the park.This report reflects the hike as completed via Sunrise and not the "back door." Done this way it was a little over 15 miles and I am uncertain on elevation but there is some on the way back. I would highly encourage anyone who is up to 15 miles to do this trail! What an amazing place, that's what our group just kept saying to each other. The wildflowers are everywhere and the beauty of the meadows cannot be described with words. Even making it to Berkley Park which would be about 4 miles one way is a nice hike. Once you reach Grand Park though it's on another level.  The trail is very clear and easy just need to make sure your up for 15 miles. If you're thinking about it, go do it. You will not be sorry.I reached the Eleanor Creek trailhead around 8:15 and there were two other cars already there.  The directions to the trailhead are solid and there's plenty of parking. The trail to Lake Eleanor is in great shape and follows the creek most of the way.  I saw a lone elk at the Lake Eleanor camp sites.  It stared me down from about 30 yards away and didn't move an inch as I walked past on the trail.  Cool!  Coming out of the woods into the first meadow and seeing The Mountain in the distance was epic.  Joe would have loved it.  It's a beautiful, peaceful place and a great place to chill out for a little while. The trail climbs a little from there to the park, but nothing too strenuous.  Grand Park itself is a sight to behold.  There aren't many flowers yet (though there are some), but the views are spectacular and taking time to sit and enjoy the sun and the breeze is good for the soul. Highly recommend this hike!There were 20 cars at the TH when we arrived at 11:30! We hiked 1/2 mile across Grand Park to our favorite lunch log!  We saw 2 elephant's head, shooting stars, a few lupine, and many bog orchids in the first meadow with the first view of Mt Rainier. The forest flowers for the most part were past their prime until we reached the steps as you near Grand Park. Hear the avalanche lilies were in full bloom along with some magenta paintbrush, alpine cinquefoil, lupine, and a few blue violets. There are many blooms yet to come. The mosquitoes were a nuisance with many more to come as the flowers become more prolific! This must be the most abused trail in the park by dog owners! :(!  (Nachos Peak Loop is a close second!) We saw 3 dogs on the trail. Their owner's comments are, "It's too hot to leave them in the car!"I have never ventured up to Grand Park or Lake Eleanor before and gave it a shot today with my three kiddos (ages 7,7,5).The road was in great shape (any type of vehicle will suffice) and encountered no logging trucks, though they are supposedly active on FR 73.The trail is well defined and in decent shape. There is a particularly muddy spot at about .6 miles to Lake Eleanor, waterproof footwear required.Very few bugs encountered.We only made it 1.75 miles to the first alpine meadow but enjoyed a lunch in the sun with some early blooming flowers.Total hike and 20 minute lunch with three kids: 2.25 hrs.Not too much to add to the report posted June 6th, but I'll say that there are few bugs now, so it's a good time to go. (Grand Park can be notoriously buggy).  As already reported, there are some very muddy/boggy spots, though there are branches or sticks placed in the mud--with hiking poles, it's no problem to stay balanced on the sticks. Please don't trample vegetation off to the side in an effort to avoid the mud. This trail appears to have become popular with trail runner; it would be nice if they would remember to yield to uphill hikers, and it would be extra nice if they could not shout when talking to each other while running (you can hear them coming, and going, a mile away, which is a real bummer when in wilderness hoping to see some wildlife).Not too much to add to the report posted June 6th, but I'll say that there are few bugs now, so it's a good time to go. (Grand Park can be notoriously buggy).  As already reported, there are some very muddy/boggy spots, though there are branches or sticks placed in the mud--with hiking poles, it's no problem to stay balanced on the sticks. Please don't trample vegetation off to the side in an effort to avoid the mud. This trail appears to have become popular with trail runner; it would be nice if they would remember to yield to uphill hikers, and it would be extra nice if they could not shout when talking to each other while running (you can hear them coming, and going, a mile away, which is a real bummer when in wilderness hoping to see some wildlife).I have not hiked a lot of places, but of the ones I have hiked, this is my favorite.  With incredible weather, this hike was nothing short of spectacular.  I arrived at the trailhead at 7:30 AM.  Going in, I met few other hikers, but there were more on the way out.  Even so, there was plenty of solitude, a great opportunity to be one with nature.   The trail is in adequate condition.  There are a couple of substantial mudholes.  DO NOT wear sneakers on this hike unless you want them ruined.  This is a hike for waterproof hiking boots.  There were also a handful of blowdowns, but nothing substantial. My goal was to get some wildflower pictures, or a combination of wildflowers with Mt. Rainier in the background.  I figured with the lack of snow this year, the wildflowers might be earlier than normal.  Maybe they will be, but the best wildflower show is, I am guessing, at least a couple of weeks away.  There were some beautiful flowers, but the star of the show was Mt. Rainier itself.   I may go back in a couple of weeks for more flowers, but to get better light (sunrise) for photographs, I am thinking at my slow hiking speed, I should be at the trailhead by 3:00 AM. At the end of Grand Park, I like to hike about a half to three-quarters of a mile West on the Northern Loop Trail.  From there, you have a great view of the West Fork of the White River with Mt. Rainier in the background from about 2,000 feet above the river level. By the way, the sign at the trailhead says the elevation is 2,980.  I am not sure what measurement that is but it cannot be feet.  You start off about 4,500 feet.Two adults and two 8 year olds hiked to the meadow and back in about six hours after a break at the meadow for lunch. Snow has completely melted from the meadow.  There is only a few hundred feet of snow on the trail.  The wildflowers are just starting to come out.  We didn't get rained on but the clouds also never lifted so we missed the view of Rainier.The 73 Road to Lake Eleanor trailhead is good to go and so is the route to Grand Park if you don't mind a bit of mud and some snow.  You will see a few patches of snow here and there early on but nothing significant until you reach the shaded northern slopes leading into the main meadow starting around 5100'.  You will appreciate sturdy waterproof boots, and possibly snowshoes with traction as you can posthole thigh-deep in places if you aren't paying attention.  That said, the route is easy to follow and is only mildly strenuous in a very few places.  The meadow is going to melt out very soon; bare spots are already showing and the remaining snow depth was only about 8-16".  There were tracks most of the way to the Northern Loop trail junction but none past that in either direction (Berkeley Park or James Camp).  Saw 1 person, 2 vehicles, and 2 deer on the day.Grab your snowshoes and head for Grand Park!FS Rd 73 must have been recently graded, it's in great shape but for some spooky exposed sections- not for the faint hearted.  Found the 'trailhead' no problem, just left of Eleanor Ck, and the hike up to Lake Eleanor through pretty woods is serene and mostly snow free.  Past the lake is lots of clear dry trail to the first big meadow, and only climbing past that do you encounter some slushy postholey smush on the way to Grand Park proper- glorious, a snowshoers paradise, flat as a billiard table for explorations in all directions, and all overseen by Rainier, Little Tahoma, and snowy Mt Fremont.  A perfect day for a transcendent experienceso Wednesday we decided to find the trail head to grand park we eventually found that and made it to lake Eleanor as well. the gate is closed on forest service road after like a mile on 73 but you can avoid it by taking a right turn before the gate and completely bypassing it why its even there i am not sure. on the way up to the trail head snow starts at 4,000 or so feet not easy going even in my friends truck so we walked the last half mile. once we found the area the trail head was supposed to be we could not find it so we followed the creek up to the lake a lot of snow logs and pounds to cross over or go around we made it to the lake still pretty easy just fallow the creek couldn't go farther then the lake though didn't have the time and a proper map past that point. will be back in a few months to finish the full hike. note did find the trail on the way down when your starting the hike the trail is just to the left of the stream. the right sucks don't go right...The last 1.5 miles of the gravel road to the trailhead (FR-73) is snow covered and icy in parts. 4WD or traction recommended. The trail is completely snow covered and some sections are very icy - especially the first part until lake Eleanor. Poles and traction-device will definitely be useful. The trail starts from FR-73 just before the Eleanor creek crossing, on the left as you drive in. The trail was easy to follow today - there were 4-5 groups/individuals that we saw and there was good boot path. That can change quickly if that area gets more snow.A stellar November day !!!  Trail a bit icy in forest in places with a few boot swallowing muddy spots- after all this is November!! Less mud after Lake Eleanor.  Slight dusting of  1/4 inch of new snow up in the meadows and sunny blue skies made this a postcard perfect setting for a November hike.  Warm enough at lunch to roll up pant legs and, do some sunbathing in Grand Park.  The Mountain gleamed with a fresh white coat.  Hiked  through Grand Park to just before trail drops into trees .  A few other lucky hikers were out that day.... what a bonus for this time of the year!  No elk to be seen today.Road to the trailhead is in pretty good shape, just a few potholes, nothing to write home about. Trailhead sneaks up on you and there is no sign, it is right at the Eleanor Creek Crossing about 10 miles from Hwy 410. Just about exactly 2 hour drive from Seattle. Started hiking at 11:00 am. Trail is pretty soggy at parts with a really bad boggy, muddy section before you reach Eleanor Lake, but nothing impassable. Past the lake the trail is good, hit some intermittent snow and ice about 0.5 miles before the start of the big meadow. Again, nothing to get to excited about. Meadow is past most of the fall colors, had a dusting of snow, great views of Rainier. Hiked to the trail junction at the end of the meadow and had about a 30 minute lunch. Roundtrip from car to car was about 4.5 hours including lunch. We hiked at a steady but leisurely pace. Highly recommend this hike for views and we saw only a couple other parties all day.We took advantage of the only sunny day in a long row of rainy days and drove to the Lake Eleanor TH on FS #73.  Forest and lake were as beautiful as ever.  Fall colors were mostly gone, but there were lots of mushrooms of all kinds and sizes, many very colorful.  The meadow was gorgeous, of course; hikers were few.  In the afternoon, clouds began to build up around Mt. Rainier.We started this hike out about 8:00 in the morning.  There were only 3 cars there already.  Hiked to Lake Eleanor which was about a mile in, then on to Grand Park.  Maybe because it was early, but we did not encounter any bugs to speak of.  The trail was in good condition, but challenging in spots in elevation, but it was well worth it when you see the wonderful view of Mt. Rainier.  Had lunch, took photos on the way up and back.  Round trip took us about 5 hours +  Didn't see but only a few hikers on the trail.  Had the meadow to ourselves!The road to get to the "back door" of Grand Park was forest road 73, just a 1/4 mile south of the Rainier viewpoint/rest stop on Hwy 410 (6.5 miles past Greenwater). When you make the turn onto road 73, reset your trip odometer to zero. The trailhead is about 10 miles from this point. I didn't get lost, but there were 2 places where it would be easy to take the wrong way. One was the Suntop turnoff (don't go to Suntop, stay right) and the other was a Y that had the 73 sign with an arrow pointing straight up. The arrow should be pointing more left. We took the left road. If you pass the Huckleberry Creek trailhead at the 6 mile mark, then you are heading in the right direction. The trailhead is another 4 miles up a hill.  The actual trail has been described many times, so I won't repeat the same info. There is however, a huge hornet/wasp nest in a large log right next to the trail about 300 yards past the Lake Eleanor campground. Looked super dangerous.  This website's description of the hike mentions that you can stop at the Northern Loop junction and call it a day, but not so fast! Take the Northern Loop trail towards James Camp. About 1/3 mile ahead is probably the best view of the mountain ever. This is where you can sit down and eat lunch. You are a fool if you take this hike in cloudy/foggy conditions. The mountain view is the big draw here. We did this in Sept to avoid the bugs and they were a complete no-show. Yee-haw!Arrived at the trailhead around 10am with just a few other cars in the area. Road was littered with small rocks and potholes, but passable for a small car such as mine. Trail was wet for the first quarter mile, but dried up for the remainder of the hike. Bugs were not too bad today, you could definitely hear them flying around (mostly due to how quiet it is on the trail), but they left us alone. All in all a perfect day for a hike here.Overcast, with light drizzle. on this 8.5 mile day hike, from Lake Eleanor Trail-head to Grand Park. This hike took about us about 4.5 hours with many stops for pictures and lunch. There were just three groups of hikers on the Friday Labor Day Weekend, no doubt due to lack of "Grand" views of Mt. Rainier! Two blue Subaru Outback vehicles and one red Subaru in Parking Lot.  Sunglasses: There were minimal opportunities to use sunglasses. The folks in the Red Subaru found our LOST sunglasses and placed them on the Eleanor Creek Trail-head Sign. If you find them, please call Doris at 425-298-3132. Wasps/Bees: One person in the red Subaru party was stung repeatedly, on her ear, by wasps. There were a few late summer wasps hanging out in the mud, under the foliage, and under felled trees and branches. The red Subaru group stopped at Wapiti Woolies and the blue Subaru group gave her some Benadryl, to ease her symptoms for the ride home. (The Red Subaru, good Samaritan group, found the lost/dropped sunglasses and wished they had delivered them to us.)Warning active honey bees- we were just hiking along just after the lake and we got swarmed by bees! One person got stung 18 times.  the first part of the trail was greatWe hiked the Lake Eleanor Trail to Grand Park and on to the Northern Loop Trail which we took for 1/4 mile to an incredible viewpoint. There was some muddy spots below the lake, but the trail was otherwise in great shape. This is a very huge payoff for minimal effort on a clear day. Our route was 10.33 miles and 1642 feet of elevation gain from where we parked to the viewpoint and back. We were back in less that 4 1/2 hours. Once you reach Grand Park it is hard to hike fast because it's so pretty. More details and pictures here. http://hikemindedpeople.blogspot.com/2014/08/grand-park-backdoor.htmlHiked to Grand Park via Lake Eleanor.  Lake Eleanor is buggy, but gorgeous!  Bring your DEET!  The trail is a little muddy on the way to the lake.  Otherwise the trail is in very good condition on the way up to the park.  Nice climb up to Grand Park.  Most of the lupine are past peak at the top (they're fruited in to peas now!).  Lots of bistort and valerian.  Lots of cinquefoil.  The park itself is pretty flat, and it's a nice walk across the whole thing.  Oh but the views!  The view of Mt. Rainier is unbelievable!  Get out your PB&J, and enjoy!!It had been several years since we'd last hiked in Mt Rainier National Park, and it didn't seem like there could be a better day to see the mountain up close, so off we went. The unmarked trail starts right by the sign for Eleanor Creek. The path from there to Lake Eleanor is pretty muddy in spots, but nothing unmanageable. The lake is pretty, but swarming with mozzies so we didn't stay there long. Ditto the steepest part of the trail, just before you hit Grand Park. We moved along quickly to maximise our time in the meadows. We'd looked at other people's photos of the trail beforehand so we were prepared for a front row view of Mt Rainier, but pictures really don't do this place justice. We had lunch under a tree with the sun shining, wildflowers swaying in the breeze, birds hopping merrily from branch to branch, and the big ice cream scoop of a mountain in front of us. Bugs are ok in the meadow thanks to the breeze. All in all an amazing payoff for a relatively easy hike.Maybe I'm just an idiot or the directions aren't very clear. I could not find this hike after searching for 3 hours, wasted my entire day. Even asked park rangers if they knew about this hike and they never heard about it, we looked it up on this website and the park ranger was completely confused as I was.It was worth every single mosquito bite! Flowers are in full bloom.  There are a couple of nice patches of avalanche lilies about a half mile below the park that will be past their peak within days.  If you stop to photograph them, do so quickly because the bugs are at their worst on this section of the trail, which really sucks because this is also the steepest part of the trail.  Stop to rest or take pictures, and you will be eaten alive, DEET or no DEET! In the park itself, lupine and paintbrush are the stars of the show (along with some others whose names I don't know).  Thanks to a nice breeze, the bugs weren't quite as bad up there.  The first three-quarters of a mile of the trail is pretty rough (overgrown and muddy), as others have noted, but the trail is in excellent condition from Lake Eleanor onward.Trail is in great condition except for a few minor swampy/damp parts. We did this in tennis shoes with no problem. Make sure you bring bug repellent, though, as flies and mosquitos were really annoying.My 11 year old son and I, along with a friend, hiked to Grand park Friday.This was my first trip to Grand Park, and it won't be my last. I was stunned by the amazing views of the mountain and the seemingly endless meadow covered in wild flowers as far as the eye can see. The only problem I had with the hike was the Mosquitos, there are squadrons of them constantly on the attack.I went with my two boys age 6 and 7.  We are fairly new to hiking and backpacking.  We went with a very experienced hiker and his three kids of around the same age.  Needless to say I still have a lot to learn.The road was rough, but fine - I just went a little slower in my car than he did in his truck.The trail was good but had a few very muddy spots.  Not mud puddles but just mud that sucked the shoes of one of my boys.  The other one ended up falling in it on the way back down - but that just made for a fun story to tell mom about when we got home.We got to Lake Eleanor by about noon and were the first ones there.  We set up camp and then continued on the trail to the first big medow with a couple frog ponds.  The boys caught some frogs and saw thousands of tadpoles.  We didn't go on to Grand Park because again my boys and I are new to this and I didn't want to risk an otherwise enjoyable trip.The only complaint I had, and it was a huge one and that was the bugs.  I couldn't believe how many mesqito's there were.  We sprayed ourselves 40% Deet about every hour and it still didn't keep them at bay.  My arms and hands were eaten up and everyone in our party was the same way.  We had about 3 different kinds of sprays and none seemed to work.  It was incrediably annoying.We hiked back to camp so the boys could fish.  They had a fun time playing around and there was only one other family that slept their overnight.It was a great trail for kids - but come with magical bug spray and ready to get muddy.Next time we go we'll be prepared to go all the way to Grand Park.  I can't wait.Wild Flower Alert for all fans of this park. Lower meadows are in full bloom and by July 26th everything should be in full swing. We had lots of fog but occasional clearing. The regular spots are muddy as usual.Bugs are bad in the woods when you stop.After waking up to get an early start I noticed that the hike I had planned in the North Cascades was forecasted to get some rain. I made a quick decision to go down to Mt. Rainier (where the weather was forecasted to be partly sunny). I had seen this area of the park before from the Mt Fremont Lookout and always wanted to explore it, now was that time! Previous trip reports indicated that there were lots of bugs on the trail and that they would be a problem so I grabbed my DEET and headed out the door. The drive down was pretty easy until we got stuck behind a line of cars on 410 where there was work being done and bikers taking caution because of loose gravel. From 410 the drive was maybe 30 minutes or so up FR-73, which, by most forest roads standards, was in excellent condition. It did get a little rough after passing Huckleberry Creek... We hit the trailhead around 1030 and quickly crossed over into Rainier National Park. The walk to Lake Eleanor was quite mellow and relatively well maintained with the exception of two notable quagmires which were easily passable though. Lake Eleanor itself was a beautiful little lake nestled away from busy trails and was crystal clear. The area surrounding the lake (about 5 minutes walk in either direction) was where the mosquitos were their worst.  The trail kept onward along the side of Scarface and made it's way to a stunning meadow starting to come alive with wildflowers. This was the first part of the trail with any substantial sun exposure, but was a nice change from being under the forest canopy. After this meadow the trail began to steepen and made a nice quick climb (this is where the majority of elevation gain in this trail is) up to the Grand Park mesa. The ascent into the meadow is extremely rewarding as the vegetation changes and the views of Mt Rainier start becoming more frequent. When you actually crest up onto the mesa you are graced with some of the best views of Mt Rainier and Little Tahoma (that I, personally, have seen).  At the top, we stopped to eat lunch and refuel. When we arrived at the top there were some very light rain showers that passed quickly (nothing that required a rain jacket) and clouds were moving rapidly over and in front of Mt Rainier. In the time that we settled to eat, there was an amazing 30 second window where the Mt Rainier didn't have clouds blocking some section of it, a very nice treat! After lunch, the clouds began to dissipate and two large lenticular clouds formed to the (what looked like) North East of the peak. Within 10 minutes, another GIANT lenticular cloud cast a veil over the mountain like a giant mushroom or pizza pie and just floated there until we decided to make our way down. The hike down was quite easy and being that this was not a steep trail was nice on the hips and knees (coming from someone with prior knee surgeries and without trekking poles this time!). I believe that we made it to the trailhead around 0300.  Something interesting that we noticed about the Eleanor Creek sign though was that the elevation markers were very off: bit.ly/1rwcuz8We started our hike about noon after finding the unmarked trail head right at the Eleanor Creek elevation sign. Parked right in front in the mini parking area across the road. In the lowlands the temperature was mid 80s while we were comfortable at about 75 degrees. There was boot sucking mud at two points near the beginning of the trail and the mosquitos were relentless.  We enjoyed the gentle ups and downs through the woods. Lots of huckleberries along the trail with teeny tiny berries that have a long way to go before they are ready to eat. The Grand Park trailhead is right in camp of Lake Eleanor, heading uphill past the toilet. We met about four or five other small groups along the way. One reported having seen a bear way off in the distance where the trail meets  Northern Loop Trail, at the end of the park. Another, saw a bear the day before. We had Grand Park to ourselves and ate lunch on a big boulder set in the meadow. The mountain was a bit hazy but the view is so amazing! It was worth braving the bugs!left out about 430AM for this hike, note to hikers don't go by WTA phone APP..  we ended up turning around due to trip reports not mentioning anything about hiking through lake elanor and it being a backdoor..  we got off the hike and drove all the way to the ranger station for more information, turns out we were on the right trail, but for safety reasons we didn't return, will definitely do the hike again, it's very quiet and very pretty..  trail is in great condition very visible, couple mud spots, but nothing you can't get across.  always carry a map..Trail was snow free, just a small patch near Grand Park, that seemed to be melting out. The mosquitos were SOOO bad. Worse than any hike I've ever done. We had to put sunscreen on in the car so they wouldn't attack us and we all put on insect repellant and had a tough time keeping them off still. The worst was the first mile to the lake. After that there were still lots, but not as bad if you kept moving. It was hard to stop and enjoy the gorgeous view in Grand Park because of how bad the mosquitos were. We have two kids (1 1/2 yr old and a 4 yr old). Usually the 4 year old can manage the hike just fine, but the bugs were so bad, we decided to just go as fast as we could and carry them both. Somehow, maybe the insect repellant did do something, me and my two kids managed to get out mosquito bite free (probably the constant swatting), but my poor husband got about 10 visible bites on just one arm, despite the insect repellant. I had done this same hike a couple years ago and I don't even remember using insect repellant so we must've just gone during a bad time. Still had a good time and weather was hot! Jumped in the lake (very quickly to avoid mosquitos!) on our way out. Also there were several muddy parts on the trail, but we were able to pass them okay. Road to trailhead was good, minus the potholes, and even though it was a Saturday, we found somewhere to park pretty easily. I've driven on the road in a front-wheel drive sedan before and had no problems.What a Grand place to be on a sunny day! The views are amazing! The walk is nice, the trail is mostly in great shape and easy to follow.  If you walk all the way across the park to the JCT take a right and go about .4 to a great viewpoint. It's worth the extra steps.   Avalanche  lilies are everywhere, millions of them.  The first meadow has a lot of blue. There are many big patches of yellow. The paintbrush is just starting and is the pretty magenta color.   There is a big mud hole early on and a couple of snow patches but not too difficult.The mosquitoes are bad! We sprayed Off on ourselves over and over but still got pestered and bitten to a point of frustration.Afternoon hike with a new friend. I don't do well in heat, this was just another example of why i like EARLY mornings. I felt like a snail and was pouring sweat an hour into hike. There's some typical mud to deal with and a bit of snow but easy to cross. No navigation issues. Bugs are annoying, keep moving, bring deet. We saw avalanche lilies, glacier lilies, tiny bit of paintbrush, and lupine just starting in the big meadow. Flowers are early this year! A few birds but that was about it. Gorgeous light on the mountain made it hard to leave. Arrived back at the car around 9:30 with a little daylight to drive home.We were amazed at the Avalanche Lilies, there were thousands of them in the forest between Lake Eleanor and Grand Park.   We ran into snow about a half mile from Grand Park but it was not impassable, just a bit slippery.   While in Grand Park, we saw Gray Jays, chipmunks, an Elk  as well as several wildflowers in bloom.   Once we got to the opposite side of Grand Park, we took a right where the trail meets the Northern Loop Trail and went as far as the lookout over the West Fork White River.   We only  ran into about 12 other hikers and were able to enjoy the lookout and lunch at the lookout.We were stopped well short of the trailhead on NF 73 by 2 rock slides (mile post 7 and just over the Huckleberry Creek bridge).  We parked next to the bridge and took off on foot following the road.  Later on we found heavy snow blocking the road.  Since the trailhead was such a long distance from our location we decided to quit and are going to try again in 2 or 4 weeks.We took a day trip to Grand Park on Thanksgiving because the weather forecase said that it was the only sunny day before the (forecasted) heave snow in the weekend. Snow started on FR-73 at 6-7 miles from SR-410. There was one car ahead of us, but it eventually turned back after it was stuck in snow twice and we helped it out. We managed to move our car to the Eleanor Creek bridge, and started hiking there.The snow was compact, and we didn't wear snowshoes throughout the hiking. Some of us wore microspikes, but even the rest of us didn't need them. Thankfully, the previous hikders made a very accurate snowshoe track, and we didn't have any difficulty in making our way to Lake Eleanor and Grand Park.Lake Eleanor was completely frozen. Some of us could even walk on the lake (don't do that!). We moved on, and followed a short trail of which many parts were almost free of snow. Suddenly, a clean snow field emerged in front of us. The meadow appeared to be unoccupied for the past few days, and the snow in the meadow (not Grand Park, yet) was clean and free of marks.We kept on, and passed another forest area. The forest area was more difficult and fully covered with snow. The previous hikers' track was much fainter, but the trail was still visible and usable. We finally reached another vast meadow, which was the beginning of Grand Park.Grand Park was indeed a huge snow field, apparently without any human visitors in the past few days. We ran and played around, leaving deep human foot print probably first time since the last few days. The snow must have been way deeper, but it was firm and compact enough to hold us at the ankle depth. After spending some time there, we turned back.We left our car at 10 AM, and returned at 2:30 PM. We met no other hikers during our hiking. I hope that our foot print helps other hikers in the future like those of the previous hikers did to us. Thanks to the great weather and the previous hikers, it was a safe unforgettable Thanksgiving hiking.Finally made it to Grand Park and it was amazing! Escaped the lowland fog and was rewarded with sunny blue skies and sweeping views of the mountain. The road is in good shape, a few big potholes sneak up on you, but I made it up in my Golf no problem. Trail is wet and muddy in places and patchy snow just before the big meadows. Trail was snow covered (<6") through most of Grand Park but plenty of dry snow-free spots to sit and have lunch. Finally made it to Grand Park and it was amazing! Escaped the lowland fog and was rewarded with sunny blue skies and sweeping views of the mountain. The road to the Eleanor Creek trailhead is in good shape, a few big potholes sneak up on you, but I made it up in my Golf no problem. Trail is wet and muddy in places and patchy snow just before the big meadows. Trail was snow covered (<6") through most of Grand Park but plenty of dry snow-free spots to sit and have lunch. TH was easy to find with the directions.  Just a few spots that were rocky on the road in.  Low clearance vehicle would be high risk of gouging a muffler.  First mile is a very pleasant wooded trail.  A few boggy spots, but able to cross on sticks'n'stones with just mud spatters.  Camp sites on Lake Eleanor looked dry and comfy, I wasn't tempted to swim in the lake: too boggy.  On and on until we hit snow at about 5000' elevation.  Not worth snow shoes yet, bear tracks maybe to reduce slipping.  Picnicked in a stand of trees and met a few 'camp robbers'.  Sign post at the end of Grand Park was on the Norther Loop Trail.  James Camp 6mi west, Fire Creek Camp 1.6 mi west, Berkeley Park 3 mi east.  (just in case you don't quite know where the plateau ends).  Tons of mushrooms on the way: bolletes and bears head tooth.After having to turn around early on the Huckleberry Creek Trail, we decided to hike as far as time allowed on this trail. The trail was VERY wet with much standing water and overgrown areas in the section prior to Lake Eleanor, especially near the NP Boundary. This section was actually wetter than the usual bog area. There were many varieties of fungi. We met one other hiker who went only to Lake Eleanor. Rain was a constant companion, but we actually had 2 minutes of sun as we approached Lake Eleanor! The Eleanor Creek signs are interesting-one says Elevation 2980 ft the other 4340 ft! :)!We had planned to backpack the Northern Loop, but the weather was not going to be good after the 26th of September, so we decided to do an overnight and camp at Fire Creek Camp.  Thursday was a beautiful day.  The trail was great all the way to Fire Creek.  Grand Park was amazing.  But the most amazing thing was all of the mushrooms we found.  Hundreds of them, so many varieties, colors and sizes.   I am not a mushroom expert, so I just took pictures of them.   If you like mushrooms, this is a great hike to see them.  We only ran into one hiker from the time we left Sunrise.   Fire Camp was very nice, we were the only ones camped there.   We had a good stay, left early on Friday and did get into showers, rain and wind.  Camp out was worth it!The back door hike from highway 410 up forest road 73 to the Elenor Creek parking lot is a very easy hike filled with splendors.  The parking lot at the trailhead is small without an outhouse.  The trailhead starts up through dense undergrowth that turns out to be huckleberries.  There are many blowdowns up to Lake Elenor but they are all easily stepped over.  There are also mudholes in this stretch.After the lake the trail goes over a small ridge, down into a valley and then up a long, sometimes steep ridge to the first of the open meadows.  Up at this level, the blueberries are thick and almost overripe.  Mushrooms and fungi are everywhere along the entire trail.  Bears Tooth fungi sprout from ends of logs.  Boletes push up everywhere.  Large "golfball" mushrooms grace the meadows.  I ate all the oyster mushrooms.The Grand Park is indeed overwhelming.  It is a huge, broad meadow which much be brillant with flowers earlier in the season but is no less spectacular now.  Looming over all is the massive bulk of Mt. Rainier.  When we were there, the summit was hidden in clouds but the base was clear.  Clouds moved in quickly by the time we reached the car and a full fledged lightning and thunder downpour took us to Wapito Willies for coffee.  We worried about the folks whom we met going up as we were leaving.Grand Park is the perfect name for this hike, nothing else could describe the natural beauty of the meadows and the spectacular views of Mt. Rainier.  The hike goes through forest, passes by Eleanor Lake then on to wide open meadows.   Mt Rainier appears in  all its glory, seems so close you could almost touch it.  Spectacular!!  Used bug spray it seemed to work. I would recommend this hike.  Don't forge your camera:) Drove the 10miles up FS road 73 till we hit the Lake Eleanor TH. Within a mile we hit the lake and from their the first small meadow but no views of the mountain. Continued on and slogged up a big hill till we came to the beginning of Grand Park. I am sure on a clear sunny day this would be gorgeous but the clouds came in and obstructed the view of Mt Rainier. We were able to see Fremont Lookout which we had hiked the day before but not much more.  Overcast and drizzling. Ran into other hikers coming via Sunrise. Saw some bear scat but no bears, no mountain goats or any other critters. Very disappointing but still a good hike considering the overcast day. Pretty much the end of the wild flowers blooming as well. Bugs werent too bad but we had sprayed pretty well before starting the hike.We hit the trail early and practically had the whole thing to ourselves. Keep in mind that the trail head is not marked, but is clearly visible by Eleanor Creek and parking is on the right. We took off and started with a very gentle climb. We reached Lake Eleanor and found a several people camped out, still sleeping from what I could tell. We quietly passed and continued on our way. We climbed a little more through amazing wildflowers and trees. It was early as we came through and was the perfect time to time some pictures. After the little incline you are rewarded with an amazing view of the mountain. My friend and I could not stop gushing about how beautiful it was! You feel like you can reach out and touch it. The park wanders for about a mile to the junction with Upper Loop trail and several others. We stopped to drop our packs and laid out for a bit, just enjoying the scenery and quiet.I highly recommend this hike, I've seen several views of Mount Rainier but have never seen her this up close. Amazing! started out early, very few cars in the sunrise side of Mt Rainier NP. Beautiful cloudless sky, the Mountain was incredible.  Started up towards Frozen lake to be greeted by a very spunky marmot, this part of the trail has spectacular views on both sides of the ridge --north cascades to the right and the burroughs mountain trail and full on Mount Rainier to the left.  Its full sun and downhill the first 3 miles or so, but once I got past the first few miles it turned into unprecedented fields of flowers, flowers and more flowers!  a lovely waterfall and then walking along Lodi Creek for a few miles, beautiful with several sweet spots for breaks (not to mention feet cooling off ), after Berkely park campsite, some woods which were a welcome relief rom all of the sun, and then some uphill until coming out on Grand ark,which it is.  Stopped under the shade of a tree at trail head for Elenor lake and had lunch, and got chewed on by a few bugs. Then headed back to enjoy the views again.  Had to stop and put my feet in the cold cold creek, aaahhh! Enjoyable day overall Beautiful day coming up the backside.  A couple of muddy crossings.  More bugs at the lower elevations. More flys than mosquitos.  Weather came in quickly around the top of the mountain.  Still plenty of wildflowers and not many hikers.My son and I hike to Grand Park via Lake Eleanor today. It's a long 10 mile drive up FS road 73 to get to the trail-head but the road is in pretty descent shape. There are a few potholes and some wash-boarding but I had no problems in my sedan. We arrived at the trailhead at 9:30am and found 2 other cars already there. We hit the trail and were no more than 50 feet in when the bugs started swarming. We wiped on some repellent and that seemed to keep them at bay for the most part. We stopped at Lake Eleanor for a minute to check it out. It was very quiet and peaceful, looks like a great place to camp. As we continued on we pretty much had the trail all to ourselves, only passing 2 other groups on our way up. We made the final ascent up to Grand Park and were met with the most spectacular view of the mountain. It was partly cloudy out and large patches of clouds floated past the mountain which seemed to add to the beauty. We had some lunch and took a bunch of pictures. Looking through the binoculars I was able to see some climbers descending the mountain. On the hike back we encountered about a dozen other groups both coming and going. We were back at the car by 1:30. This was part of a longer trail run but breaking into sections. I am starting this one from Lake Eleanor which is probably backwards of how most will do it, but this was my experience.First, Lake Eleanor doesn't seem to be that exciting of a destination. It is surrounded by trees and has lots of mosquitoes. But going through Grand Park is worth the trip. This is a giant meadow, full of wildflowers right now, and provides great unobstructed views of Mt Rainier and the Mount Freemont Lookout, among other area attractions.The trail intersects with the northern loop trail and drops down into the basin of Berkeley Park. There is another nice shady campground here along the creek, but mountain views are gone. Climbing out of the Park provides another wildflower show and the views get more expansive as you ascend. The trail eventually intersects with the Wonderland at the ridge top, and shortly afterwards, the Freemont Lookout trail. This is worth the side trip. The trail climbs at first but then levels and traverses through the talus out to the lookout, providing amazing views of Mt Rainier all the while. From the Lookout, you can see the expanse of Grand Park below, as well as identify other mountains to the north. It's only a short hike back to Sunrise from the end of the lookout trail, and the trail is like a highway. Absolutely stunning hike! It was a perfect combination of open meadows (full of blooming wildflowers) and good old fashioned Douglas-fir stands. The trail was very clear and in such good condition it could easily be walked barefoot! The incline was very gently until the last mile where you climb the last little ridge to get up into grand park. It was extremely extremely buggy though, so even soaking myself down with 40% DEET spray was good at first, but need a re-application 2 hours later. Just bring your bug spray with you and apply liberally and the bugs won't be a big problem. Worth it for the sake of getting such a great view too. Trail wasn't too busy, and took about 4 1/2 hours round trip for a slow hiker. I wore Chacos, which were fine for the trail until there were a couple really muddy-marshy spots so be warned you might get a couple inches of mud on your boots.Grand Park gives a grand view! Perfectly sunny day without a cloud in sight.  Trail was a little wet/muddy at first, but then it was fine.  Mosquitoes are in full hatching, so be sure to spray all over before you start. The meadows will lush green with lupine, paint brush and lilies.  The mountain stood grand and picture worthy! Wildflowers are blooming and the bugs are out!Beautiful day for a grand adventure to Grand Park...Arrived at the trailhead by 9:30am to find 4 other cars parked...trail was in good shape besides a few mud areas between the trailhead and Lake Eleanor...But there were bugs and they were out in full force today.  I actually wore a long sleeve shirt with the sun and 80 degree weather, just to not get bitten on the arms.  Trip to the lake took about 25 minutes, but we didn't stay long there...the meadows were what we wanted to see and they didn't disappoint.  From Lake to first "teaser" meadow is about a mile and then.  There were ups and downs in the trail and in all honesty a few areas that totally got the heart going.  Avalanche lilies lined the trail for about a half mile before entering Grand Park...lots of other wildflowers blooming...lupine, paintbrush, buttercups...there was sagebrush and much more to see...the only thing was that you had to keep moving to avoid or limit the bugs.We hiked to the intersection of the northern loop trail and that is where I heard a large animal, but didn't see it.  It was a low base rumble, almost like a half grunt/snore...we made some noise and headed back through grand park.Lots to see along the way there and back...Fremont Lookout was very visible, Rainier in all it's glory, tons of wildflowers and a few other hikers on the trail.  Returned to car by 2:30 after spending close to 2 hours walking the park and enjoying everything besides the bugs.  We even sprayed deet on us at the beginning of the hike...it never once stopped us from being bittenA couple of notes: the current directions mention a junction in the road where you turn right, around milepost 9. Just stay straight on the main road - there's a road that veers off to the left, and one that goes to the right, and neither of them are correct. If the trailhead doesn't like the one in the picture here, keep trying. Also, there's a privy on the right about a half mile from Hwy 410.Trail was a little bit muddy in places. The first mile to Lake Eleanor was Extremely Buggy!!! You will not be tempted to stop due to swarms of mosquitoes. After that it was just normal buggy. Most of the elevation gain comes at the end, as you ascend to Grand Park, but the trail is lined with thousands of avalanche lilies to make you forget the steepness. Grand Park is one of the biggest meadows I've ever seen, and right now it's full of wildflowers: buttercups, magenta paintbrush, lupine, carpet phlox, and more.Amazing in-your-face view of Rainier, if it's clear. When we got to Grand Park the skies were blue and clear and gorgeous. About an hour and a half later, the sky was dark, it was spitting rain, and Rainier was nowhere to be seen.Hit the trail at 9:30 am and hiked to Grand Park back door thru Lake Eleanor.....11 miles up FS RD 73, off of Hwy 410. There were some flowers blooming. Bugs were mild, with a bit of wind and movement not bad at all. As the day got warmer the bugs came out. Give it one week and the park will be in full bloom. Took about a half hour lunch and headed back to the car. Arrived at 3:30 pm. Lovely day, great company!Got a late start out of Seattle, arrived at trailhead after dark and enjoyed a cozy night sleeping in the back of Lucille 3 (our Outback). Road up was pretty potholed but not unmanageable.An early start, complete with blue sky, pancakes and coffee, and on trail just before 7am. The hike up was easy, enjoyable, a bit of mud but barely any snow (a small bit here and there). Grand Park was simply fantastic, with the first wildflowers in bloom, and more to come - we will definitely be back soon! Rainier was of course, glorious, and we had a nice lunch and nap basking in the beauty. I'd call this one of the greatest hikes I've done, but I don't want many people up there, so let's pretend it wasn't the perfect moderate hike-- longish, without too much elevation, but yet incredibly beautiful. We topped it off with a swim in Lake Eleanor, which will be just perfect in a month or two (still a bit too cold to stay in for more than a minute).Road became covered with snow about a mile outside of trailhead. Walked about another mile in on packed snow before the trail got lost in the snow completely.The weather worked out wonderfully today; Planned to try this trail as a means to try snowshoes out and it was a success.The trail head was a bit difficult to get to-- we had to park down the road about 1/2mile due to snow getting too deep. The trail is pretty much covered in snow/ice, so good traction/sticks and eventually, snowshoes are especially needed. The trail is narrow but was easy enough to follow with a good beaten path; Lake Eleanor was partially frozen over and made for a great view, this is probably a nice camping location. The trail gets more snowy/icy after the long downhill section before the first meadow-- prepare to use snowshoes from this point on as the snow is pretty deep but the path is fairly clear. The uphill sections prior to entering the Grand Park plateau were especially deep in snow and it was.. interesting to say the least. The open expanse is pretty staggering and in a world of white, its something else. The big mountain was not visible but some of the smaller peaks were more clear, with the tower atop mount fremont being very clear. All in all a fantastic hike. The trail seemed to have little to no avalanche risk involved, which is a big plus. The ranger station said this area will be turning into a snowpark soon, though. We were headed out to snowshoe Sun Top but there was no snow so we headed up to try Grand Park through the back door. One of our vehicles was not AWD so we parked 2 1/2 miles down from the trailhead and headed out. We were in the snow the entire time, but didn't need snowshoes until the meadow past Lake Eleanor. In the less wooded areas there was 12 or more inches of snow. We turned around at 5.5 miles which left us short of Grand Park but 11 miles total was enough for us. We have never done this hike, our first time. Have seen trips reports for it in the past. This is a great hike! The fall colors were awsome, reds, oranges, yellows. Trail in good condition, a very easy hike... We didnt get any views of Rainier, there was alot of smoke in the sky, thru most of the hike we could smell it. Alot of people on the trail today. This is such an great hike, the lake is beautiful also. Grand Park from Lake Eleanor:Toward the end of the season, and despite haze, still a great hike.Still some flowers, especially a lot of mountain bog gentian. Plenty of color from huckleberries turning red.Huckleberries kind of sparse - poor bears...Trail and road in good shape.Very few bugs.Elysian Fields - that lush but elusive valley on the north side of Mt. Rainier.  I had made three previous attempts to get there, abandoning them due to avalanche hazard, insect swarms, and time pressure, respectively.  I knew from the 'insect' trip that up and over Crescent Gap was a viable route, but I had it on good authority that there is a route from Crescent Lake.  This time I decided to start from the Lake Eleanor trailhead, one that I'd never been to before.I requested a backcountry camping permit from the Wilderness Information Center, but got a lot of resistance from the young ranger.  He thought that Crescent Lake was within sight of the trail and therefore off limits to backcountry camping.  I insisted that it wasn't, but could not convince the young man.  I finally gave up and accepted a James Camp permit for 3 nights.I set out from the Lake Eleanor trailhead (elevation 4525), following the trail about 1 mile to Lake Eleanor.  There were two nasty mud holes along the way, but since it hadn't rained in over 40 days, I was able to negotiate them without losing my boots.  They could be a real problem though in wetter times.At Lake Eleanor, elevation 4985', the trail continues to the left and immediately gets better.  The trail is wider and has fewer roots.  There are no more mud holes.  At one point, the trail drops 150' into a meadow with a shallow pond, but mostly it continues up gently.  Nearly a mile beyond the lake, the trail crosses a stream, the last chance for water.  Twice that distance farther, the trail breaks out of the forest into a meadow flanked by trees.  On a clear day, Little Tahoma is visible, and shortly thereafter Mt. Rainier itself.  The meadow and the views expand, signifying the beginning of Grand Park.  After 1.5 miles of exposed meadow walking, I arrived at the SW end of Grand Park and the signed junction with the Northern Loop Trail.  The sign indicated that it was 3.3 miles from Lake Eleanor.I started toward James Camp, 6 miles distant.  From the junction, the trail rose about 40' to 5700' then slowly dropped to 5600 in just less than half a mile, at which point there was a beautiful unobstructed view of Mt. Rainier and the White River valley.  I highly recommend the detour for those who are visiting Grand Park from Sunrise.  The view is simply spectacular on a clear day.After putting away my camera, I continued down, steeply at times, past the junction to Fire Creek Camp, to the broad crossing of the White River at 3200' - four miles of sustained downhill.  I started dreading the return trip in my mind.  At the beginning of the White River crossing is a sign indicating it is 3.1 miles to Grand Park.  Don't believe it; even the MRNP web page says it's 4.At the west side of the White River crossing is a second footlog over the river and a view of Van Horn Falls.  If you need water, get it from the falls rather than the silty river.The trail then begins climbing steeply the two miles to James Camp, elevation 4500'.  There are four heavily forested camp sites.  Don't expect to see the sunrise or sunsets from these camps.  This time of year, I had no problem with insects.On day 2, I set out with a day pack to find a route from Crescent Lake to Elysian Fields.  I crossed the stream 0.1 mile from camp and started up steeply, at one half mile passing a junction to the Lake James Patrol Cabin.  (I had heard it was unattended and locked.)  I continued up, crossing a stream about halfway up, then breaking out of the forest into beautiful sculpted meadowlands.  A bit higher up, I crossed a stream (the same one I think) on a footlog.  This was the last source of water before Windy Gap, but I was planning on filtering out of Crescent Lake, so I continued.  A short distance beyond was the junction for the trail to the Natural Bridge, and then the only patch of snow I would encounter on the trail, at 5850'.  The entire route, all blowdowns had been cleared.At Windy Gap, I followed a crude footpath off-trail most of the way to Crescent Lake.  A snow crossing along the way was very firm and hard to kick steps into. The last half mile required route-finding.  At Crescent Lake I got water, then set out from the lake on a heading of 260 degrees, toward a talus slope I had seen two years earlier.  I crossed the talus then carefully stepped onto the steep slope on the far side.  Heavy vegetation made the footing treacherous.  Trees blocked the view toward an easy route.  I contoured around two ridges, heading mostly south, and maintaining an elevation between 5700' and 5800'.  I broke out of the trees and climbed up a gully thick with heather and lupine to get a better look.  No luck.  I climbed gently and continued to the south until finally at 6300', I got my first glimpse of my goal.  I was able to step out of the forest onto a steep rocky face, where I got an unobstructed view of Elysian Fields and Mt. Rainier.  But I was still far away, with no safe way to downclimb.  So this became my lunch and turnaround spot.  Elysian Fields was quite pretty from above.After lunch, I retraced my steps and got back on the main trail.  I took the side trail to Natural Bridge then returned to camp to decide whether to make a fifth attempt at Elysian Fields the next day.  In camp, I looked at the topo maps closely and decided that a route from Crescent Lake wasn't worth spending any more time on.  It was shorter to just go over Crescent Gap, and I knew it could be done.On day 3 I returned to Windy Gap and went off-trail at the unnamed lake just off the trail.  I eyed the route up Crescent Mountain, wanting to avoid the firm and icy snow.  There was a route on rocks all the way to the top.  I took it, arriving at the top 40 minutes later.  The view of Mt. Rainier was fabulous in the clear weather, but there was no view of Elysian Fields.  I dabbed on some insect repellent (for the only time during this entire trip) and set out in a SSW direction, down into moderately thick forest.  There were a few game trails I tried to follow, but I kept losing them.  Wherever I went, one thing was consistent - there was bear scat everywhere!I continued down, mostly mindful of my footing on the steep slope, but always looking for an opening in the trees that might afford a view.  Finally, 20 minutes from the top I found a full view of the Fields.  Ten minutes later I was on flat (and somewhat marshy) ground.  I toured the valley and found a delightful lunch spot alongside sparkling Dick Creek, just before it tumbled down a V-shaped cleft leaving the valley.  After lunch, I continued my tour, realizing that Elysian Fields had looked better from above the day before.  The ground-level view just wasn't as good.  There were a few flowers still in bloom, notably Mountain Bog Gentian.  I had no regrets; I would rather miss the flowers than suffer the thick insects I had experienced on a previous attempt.  (My friend and I had abandoned that attempt when we passed from Vernal Park into the eastern edge of Elysian Fields, only to be greeted by the LOUD audible buzz of a bazillion insect wings.  It had been truly stunning, convincing us to climb up Crescent Gap as fast as we could to escape!)My return trip was uneventful except for one thing.  As I headed up the slope toward Crescent Gap, I was angling toward a gully I had followed partway down.  As I fought my way upward, I caught sight of a large black bear above me, angling its way downward toward the same gully.  I quickly checked the wind and discovered I was directly upwind.  I was surprised it hadn't detected me yet.  I tried to get a picture of the animal and its beautiful brown coat, but it walked behind a tree and then out of sight. I never saw it again.Driving Directions:To get to the Lake Eleanor trailhead, turn west off of SR 410 onto Forest Road 73.  FR73 is marked with a yellow sign from either direction.  It's about 6.5 miles south of the bridge in Greenwater, and 13 miles north of the White River Road.  Staying on FR73 at junctions, drive the gravel road.  After crossing a small bridge at 6 miles, the road gets narrower and rougher, but was not potholed when I went.  At 10.2 miles, park in the trailhead parking lot, a wide shoulder that can accommodate a half dozen vehicles.  The trailhead sign that was previously reported as "shot up" has been replaced - with two back-to-back signs, each listing a different elevation.  One says "Elev 4340" and the other "Elev 2980".  According to topo maps and my altimeter, the trailhead elevation is about 4525 feet.Although FR73 was dry and dusty, there were no pot holes on the 10 miles to the TH! The trail was in good condition and the usual muddy sections were much less muddy than usual! The increasing closer view of Mt Rainier as you begin and continue your walk through Grand Park is one of our favorite views of the mountain! Most flowers are past their prime, but many asters and gentian are blooming. Fall colors are starting in the grasses and in the leaves of some of the plants. We explored the SW section of Grand Park hoping to see elk, but saw only a coyote. Several other hikers and backpackers were enjoying the beautiful, sunny day with a slight breeze and no bugs! :)!Early start from the unmarked and initially muddy trailhead but, after negotiating a few minor bogs the trail was in excellent shape all the way to the Grand Park meadow. Encountered only two other hikers during the mornings journey.  The wildflowers are out big time...  Unfortunately so are the mosquitos and Black flies. However, the stunning views of the Mountain and the acres of flowers are worth the bug battle. An early start was the right call on a Sunny Sunday as the crowds started arriving about noon and there were a few minor traffic jams on the narrow footpaths.  Still worth the minor hassles for the stunning beauty all around.  Our group departed shortly after lunch to leave the growing crowds to deal with the increasing temperatures!  Road 73 is in good shape all the way to the mile 10  "back door" trailhead. The trail is in great shape though there is a patch of mud and a few small trees to step over.The flowers are in full beautiful bloom!The view of Mount Rainier and other peaks is amazing!The bugs are hungry and were not stopped by Off spray. After crossing Grand Park, at the Northern Loop junction, we took a right and went an additional .3 mile(+/-?) to a great viewpoint that was well worth the extra half mile or so.Finaly did this back door route to Grand Park. This is easier than Hidden Lake trail we did the week before. For the first time Grand Park was mosquito free. We were able to nap and pick berries for hours. Some A-hole snuck their big dog into the park through this side though. NO DOGS ALLOWED IN MT. RAINIER IDIOT!Each time I've hiked this trail, we've usually been attached by bugs at the trailhead.  Although there were a lot of mosquitos, it was not as bad as it's been in the past making this beautiful hike even more beautiful.  Lake Eleanor was so pretty...maybe I didn't notice it before because I'm usually running past it to get away from the mosquitos but not this time.  On our way past "little grand park" the avalanche lillies are in full bloom.  They always make me think, "we're almost there."  Once past the climb up the meadows open up to grand views of Mt. Rainier and surrounding mountains.  The wildflowers were incredible.  The road to the trail is in excellant condition.  Like previous reports, there are a few mud bogs early on the trail, but the rest of the trail is in great condition.Another beautiful sunny day that was much better than the weather report.  To our suprise the small parking lot was full on a Thursday.  The mosquitoes greet you in the parking lot.  If you are moving they are not a problem so short breaks and a quick lunch.  There are 3-4 muddy boggy sections of trail before and after the lake.  Expect muddy footwear but I was able to navigate thru in low cut hiking books without getting my socks soggy.  Some people were not so lucky so step gentley and cautiously in the bogs.  No snow on the trail and Grand Park is full of flowers.  The Avalanche lilies will not last much longer but the lupine is blooming along with alpine buttercups, purple daisies, yellow parsley, some magenta paintbrush and many other alpine flowers. The views of Rainier and surrounding peaks with the flowers in bloom are spectacular.  Hiked up to Grand Park via Lake Eleanor and the back door. NF road 73 is in excellent condition with no potholes or water. A few muddy spots within the first mile to the lake on the trail, nothing impassable. The rest of the trail is in great shape. Just prior to entering the meadow, there were still a few patches of snow, but easy to navigate. The weather was hot and clear and we got some great views of the mountain. BUGS!!!! So many bugs within the meadow, we couldn't stop for lunch or we'd be eaten alive. The views of the mountain and the wild flowers made up for them, but the bugs were some of the worst I'd ever encountered. All in all, great hike in great conditions. This was my first time doing this amazing hike.  The trail starts out with some pretty bad mud holes between the lot and lake Eleanor.  Before you get up to the large meadow there is are still some banks of snow to hike up.  Lots of flowers in bloom but way more to come.  The mosquitoes were awful up in the meadow but the views made it all worth it.  This is easily one of my new favorite hikes.small amounts of snow and mud on the trail, beautiful wildflowers blooming, great hike even on cloudy days.The first mile prior to Lake Eleanor had some serious mud so be prepared to get dirty. Most sections can be skirted but one "mud lake" in the trail can't be avoided. Snow on the trail in sections in the last mile before the start of the meadows.Wild flowers are coming but the main show is still to come. Lupines are starting to spike in limited areas. The Mountain wasn't out this day and zero wildlife seen. We were here from 3:30 till nearly dusk. A must see location.This is the second time my wife and I have done this amazing hike. Last year we did it in late August and just missed the wildflower display. On our second time around we did it on 7/13/12 and the wildflowers were just starting to emerge. If you don't have the ALL Trails app for your smart phone I would really suggest getting it as it is a great help in not only finding the head of the trail but mapping your hike and average speed as well.On to the hike, yesterday we had fantastic weather and arrived at the trail head around 8:30 with only one other car parked there. The parking space is limited to about 6-7 cars at the trail head but I have been told there are a few more areas to park just up FR73.The trail to Lake Eleanor was clear and dry for the most part with the exception of one boggy area. Poles and good hiking boots are a big help here. On our way back out we saw several people turning around because they thought their Converse Chuck Taylor shoes would be an appropriate choice to hike this trail in at this time of year. In late August that choice would work but not now. More about the mud later.Lake Eleanor was free of snow and ice and looked very inviting. Once you arrive at the lake you can continue going straight on the trail if you want to use the restroom or camp. If you are continuing on to Grand Park you will want to make a left at the trail junction. The trail is free of snow and mud for the next mile or so until you reach the first meadow. This meadow is free of snow but is quite muddy. There were fresh signs of elk and deer all over the place but we didn't see any. After leaving this meadow you are back in the woods and the trail is clear and dry for the next half mile.The snow starts on your next incline and you will need to pay close attention to stay on the trail as it is buried by several feet of snow. This snow continues all the way to the beginning of Grant Park. Once you are at the beginning of Grand Park the snow breaks up and is replaced by a small stream which runs directly down the hiking path for most of Grand Park. The wildflowers are just starting to come out and I would guess that in another month or so the show will be spectacular. Again, signs of elk were everywhere but we didn't see any. We saw two park rangers up there and they reported the same thing, lots of signs but no sightings. After you reach the end of Grand Park there is a fork in the trail. The trail to the left goes to Berkely. Take the trail to the right and follow it for about a quarter to half a mile. You will have to climb over a few deep snow drifts but it is nothing difficult and you will be rewarded with an incredible view of Mt. Rainier and it's a great place to sit down, have your lunch, and take it all in.Please do your best to stay on the trail, bring good hiking boots and plenty of water. Also, we encountered no bugs at all yesterday but last year in late August we battled them in several places along the trail so it wouldn't hurt to bring bug spay as it's only a matter of time before they emerge.  This hike does expose you to full sun and can get quite muddy and hot. The views are incredible and make it one of my favorite hikes in the Rainier area.Road was just graded and in great shape! We experienced NO bugs. Lots of snow still melting out after first meadow. Rivers runs thru the trail in several spots. Lots of lilies glacier & avalanche right now,butter cups, some marsh marigolds as well and shooting stars. The show is just beginning and i'm sure bugs are coming very soon. We went to the lunch view point around the corner before you head down to Fire creek camp. Lovely spot! Had a great day in the park with good friend, we saw no other hikers and very few wildlife only birds today. I really wanted to see that bear someone was lucky enough to see a week prior. Next time...Patches of snow are still in the area obscuring parts of the trail.  The lake is maybe 50% still covered with ice and snow.  Hiking to the first meadow past the lake, the snow is mostly gone and we encountered an adult bear eating on the meadow grass.  My wife wanted to leave immediately because she thought she was going to be on his dinner menu. I encouraged her to stay and use it as a photo opportunity.I was torn between Lake Ingalls & Grand Park, it's so easy when Rainier is so close. Considering how many people were at the TH to Ingalls I think I made a good choice on staying local. I arrived early enough to catch the sunrise from FS RD 73, I drove past the TH 5 mins and found an amazing view point to watch it rise. It looked like a fire ball backlit the trees, it was spectacular! It was cold 35 this morning! I layered up and hit the trail by 7:45, no other cars here. I made quick time to lake eleanor which was glassy and beautiful as always. Then up I went to Grand Park. When I hit the open area and the first little park I noticed the sun rays coming thru the trees just right to make an excellent pic. Everything was frosty and frozen this morning. The mountain was beautiful and changed about every 30 mins, clouds changed, wind, light, it was seriously a feast for my eyes! It doesn't matter how many times I come here, I'm in awe!I'm taking my headshot pics and I see something black out of the corner of my eye bouncing. It's a black and silver white tipped fox! I got a few pics but nothing fantastic. So exciting! Then later I spotted a coyote who was so interested in me. Followed me for 1/2 mile good distance 100 feet or so along the tree line, I would stop so would they. I wasn't sure if they wanted to eat me or come home and be my new pet. I got some good photos and moved on down the trail. I saw a hawk and nutcracker bird and lots of others today. Everyone is getting ready for winter.I only saw 5 people coming up as I was headed out. Well, we chose a rainy day. The beginning was extremely muddy, so we started out with some pretty wet feet. However, it got better after the initial part. Lots of huckleberries! It was a nice treat on the way- We enjoyed the hike, but realizing we reached the junction where we were to turn around, it was fairly anti-climatic. I guess the sweeping views of Rainier might make up for it on a sunny day... However, we were enveloped by fog soon as we reached the meadow and couldn't see very far ahead of us even on the trail. Ran into 3 rangers and one other small group of hikers- otherwise, we trekked in solitude. Spotted one deer and just enjoyed the silence and soothing atmosphere. It was very 'magical,' as if you were stepping into Brigadoon. The rain came with an added benefit- no concern about bugs! After a two-hour drive from Olympia, we got the trailhead.  The trails is fairly level and just occasionally muddy through the forest crossing the Park boundary to picturesque Lake Eleanor.  From there it climbs moderately up to the first small meadow after about an hour of hiking.  There were fine flowers there, include three great beargrass, lots of subalpine lupine and Sitka Velarian, some paintbrush, aster, Explorer Gentian, and more.  We got to the meadow at 40 minutes later and got to a nice log to sit for lunch after just about two hours.  Young and energetic folks may due it quicker.  The flowers in the meadow are mostly gone by now, but there were thousands of butterflies.  Rainier was a bit hazy, I think due to wildfires to the east, but it's still just majestic.  Due to it's location--about 7 miles from Sunrise  and 3.5 from highway 410, there are many fewer hikers than the Paradise area.  We only passed maybe ten other hikers, so it was very quiet and peaceful.  There were some flies, but bug spray minimized biting. Check out my photos in a slideshow at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RJww8Aqi7lQ. Beautiful! Hike through woods then large open meadow with the best view of Mt Rainier- not crowded -This is one of  our favorite views of Mt Rainier in the park! The 1.5 mile walk through Grand Park with Mt Rainier appearing closer with each step was beautiful even though the flowers were past their prime! The thousands of butterflies seen did not seem to mind that the flowers had faded! They were fluttering about everywhere! We turned right at the junction of the Berkeley Park/Northern Loop Trail and hiked 0.2 mile mile to the view of Mt Rainier with the White River below. There were pretty flowers along this section of trail--lupine, arnica,and asters to name a few.  After lunch we sat on a log in the "silver forest" watching many bluebirds playing on the ground and flying from tree to tree. There were many areas along the trail that appeared to have been hit by strong winds as there were many large trees down all of which have been cleared! Thank you to all for their time and hard work! 2 women with a dog were on the trail. It's sad to see those who don't respect the rules!We loved this hike! It's not too steep or too long. Blowdowns have been cleared from the trail. There is a little bit of mud at the beginning and lots of mosquitoes but that's a small price to pay for the glorious view of Mount Rainier from Grand Park. The wildflowers were best at the lower meadows. The flowers in Grand Park are mostly past their prime but it's still so beautiful there. We went all the way across Grand Park to the Northern Loop JCT which I think makes it 9 miles round trip.It took us 5.5 hours including a lunch break and time to take over 600 pictures.Today was a family hike. We arrived around 12 and quickly began our hike, reaching Lake Eleanor quickly. However, there were tons of relentless mosquitos, bees, and flies, so stopping for too long wasnt really an option. I would recommend bringing strong insect repellent.The walk up to the meadow was very enjoyable, with a few steep sections, but overall very managable and fun. There were lots of flowers in bloom and the scenery was amazing.We arrived to the meadow after walking about 3 miles from the car, 1100 feet of elevation gain. Then we continued in to get a spectacular view of Mt. Rainier, and an even larger view of the meadow with even more flowers.After taking a few family pictures we headed back down, making it back in only an hour and a half. The entire trip was about 7.5 miles and 1200 feet total elevation gain.Berkely Park is close to full grandure and the hike down into Grand Park is spectacular. We were fortunate to see the Cinnamon Bear eating the flora long enough to get a big "Bear Jam" (See Photo). Grand Park has mosquitos so bring pleanty of Deet! If you like flowers don't miss out on at least the Berkely Park part of this hike.The first part of the trail through the woods and past Lake Eleanor was very muddy in spots and there were several trees to step over, but overall, the trail was good.  Wild flowers were in full bloom at Grand Park.  Once you get through the Park at the sign that points the way to Berkley Park and Sunrise to the left, turn right and go about 1/4 mile to a cliff with the most spectacular view.  No snow on the trail at all, but bugs were really BAD!!!As gorgeous as expected, and it was a cloudless day on the mountain, despite the lowlands behing quite overcast when we left.  It looks like the flowers are beginning their season, and not ending it.  Avalanche lilies and a few glacier lilies in the little draw just before entering Grand Park proper, then lupine, buttercup and paintbrush in Grand Park.  No reason not to go now:  The road up has been graded, so the potholes are gone, the traditional mudhole on the trail to Lake Eleanor is just a minor nuisance, and the snow in the trail is limited to a couple of spots about 20 in length total.  This season's blowdowns (a substantial tangle in a couple of spots) have all been cleared.  Oh, yes, bugs:  We used DEET, kept moving and were fine.  There was enough of a breeze in Grand Park to keep the mosquitos away.  Amazing hike.  Grand Park is awesome and the hike was not incredibly difficult.  Be prepared to hike through short swamps that are unavoidable.  There is just a bit of snow left on the ground but not much.  Other than that this trail is great.Mosquito feeding frenzy, hike with spray at hand.  Direction updates: once you are on 73 just stay on the main road (directions indicate a turn).  The "bridge" indicated next to the trail head is hard to recognize as a bridge and sign has been ruined.  If you hit mile marker 10 you have gone just a bit too far.I wasn't sure if this was an official trail head, but apparently the Park has put up a trail head sign. So, here goes ... To get to the trail head, drive 10 miles up the FS 73 road from Hwy 410. There's a gravel lot across the street from the Eleanor Creek sign. The sign is hardly readable and the lot holds about 6 trucks, or 10 Prius's. It was full when I arrived, so I parked up the road on a pull out. As soon as I got out of my Jeep, the mosquitoes attacked. I quickly covered myself with deet. The trail itself isn't marked here, but begins on the east side of the creek. At .1 mile up the trail is the National Park boundary and sign.At .44 mile you will have to cross some wetlands. Look for some wooden sticks propped next to a tree. These will help you keep your balance as you try to walk across the little logs. Good luck! And, leave the sticks close by. You'll need them to get back later.The trail climbs about 500 feet over the course of 1 mile and dumps you out at the group campsite at Lake Eleanor. Turning left, away from the lake, will put you on the Lake Eleanor Trail and towards Grand Park. There has been some serious trail clearing over the first mile. All the blow downs are cleared. Great work and thanks to the lumberjack, or lumberjill, as it may be!Now heading away from Lake Eleanor, the trail drops a few hundred feet and after .5 mile pops you out into a nice little meadow with Mt Rainier peeping over the trees. This is worth the 3 mile RT trek right here! But, I kept going.The little meadow turned out to be a .25 mile long micro swamp. Geez, my boots are soaked and the bugs are eating me.From the other side of the meadow, the trail dropped a little more, crossed a little creek (this is the last chance to get water), then made a mad climb up and out of the gully. The climb came on fast and hard. It is about .75 long and mostly still covered in snow. It is easily crossed and the snow is completely gone by the time you walk out into Grand Park at the 2.5 mile point.From here on it's a walk in the park. Really! And, Oh my! The mountain was out in all her glory today, along with the mosquitoes. I applied three coats of deet and still managed to collect a half dozen bites. At 4.25 miles is the junction with The Northern Loop Trail. I turned west (right) and walked about .4 mile to where the trail opens up to an amazing view of Mt Rainier. Wow!I wasn't sure if this was an official trail head, but apparently the Park has put up a trail head sign. So, here goes ... To get to the trail head, drive 10 miles up the FS 73 road from Hwy 410. There's a gravel lot across the street from the Eleanor Creek sign. The sign is hardly readable and the lot holds about 6 trucks, or 10 Prius's. It was full when I arrived, so I parked up the road on a pull out. As soon as I got out of my Jeep, the mosquitoes attacked. I quickly covered myself with deet. The trail itself isn't marked here, but begins on the east side of the creek. At .1 mile up the trail is the National Park boundary and sign.At .44 mile you will have to cross some wetlands. Look for some wooden sticks propped next to a tree. These will help you keep your balance as you try to walk across the little logs. Good luck! And, leave the sticks close by. You'll need them to get back later.The trail climbs about 500 feet over the course of 1 mile and dumps you out at the group campsite at Lake Eleanor. Turning left, away from the lake, will put you on the Lake Eleanor Trail and towards Grand Park. There has been some serious trail clearing over the first mile. All the blow downs are cleared. Great work and thanks to the lumberjack, or lumberjill, as it may be!Now heading away from Lake Eleanor, the trail drops a few hundred feet and after .5 mile pops you out into a nice little meadow with Mt Rainier peeping over the trees. This is worth the 3 mile RT trek right here! But, I kept going.The little meadow turned out to be a .25 mile long micro swamp. Geez, my boots are soaked and the bugs are eating me.From the other side of the meadow, the trail dropped a little more, crossed a little creek (this is the last chance to get water), then made a mad climb up and out of the gully. The climb came on fast and hard. It is about .75 long and mostly still covered in snow. It is easily crossed and the snow is completely gone by the time you walk out into Grand Park at the 2.5 mile point.From here on it's a walk in the park. Really! And, Oh my! The mountain was out in all her glory today, along with the mosquitoes. I applied three coats of deet and still managed to collect a half dozen bites. At 4.25 miles is the junction with The Northern Loop Trail. I turned west (right) and walked about .4 mile to where the trail opens up to an amazing view of Mt Rainier. Wow!The road heading up to the trail looks to have been recently graded.  Potholes filled and a relatively smooth ride all the way up.  The trail to Lake Eleanor is in good shape with the exception of a couple mudholes that try to swallow your boots.  It looked like someone had cleared the blowdown just ahead of us or the day before, the smell of fresh cut fir still filled the air.After the lake the trail is in great shape with only one section of snow cover for about the last 1/2 mile before entering Grand Park.  The snow is only about 6-10 inches thick and easy to navigate.  Waterproof boots are the only thing you'll need to stay comfortable.Once we reached the park, the weather conditions were about perfect for hiking - but not so good for mountain viewing.  We were right in the midst of a solid cloud cover, with the light breeze and mist a perfect mix with the mid 60's temps.  We couldn't see the Mt, but the clouds blowing around the patches of dead trees in the park made for a cool, slightly eerie ambiance.  The trail through the meadow to the south end was in good shape with no snow or muddy areas to navigate.  We turned around at the trail intersection and headed back down.  A few minutes after we turned around, about halfway back through the park, we saw a cow and calf elk dart across the meadow in front of us.  We only saw two other hikers the whole trip.  Bugs weren't bad on the trip out, but as the clouds lifted on the return trip and spots of sun broke through, the swarms began building.  Once out of the park and in the trees they seemed to calm down.Before heading down the hill, we continued up the 73 road to the 75 road, took two lefts, and drove up to Lonesome Lake.  The 75 road to Lonesome Lake and back down to Hwy 410 are both driveable and clear of snow, but blanketed with potholes.  One near the bottom came out of nowhere and swallowed almost my entire front driver's tire.Driving up forest service rd 73 was difficult without snow tires.  We were luckily able to make it to the 3000 ft. level where we parked.  Starting the hike at 8:00am with traction devices, we walked in frozen tire tracks for about a mile.  We then put snowshoes on and had to break trail for 3 miles in about 2 ft. of snow.  This was somewhat difficult.  At about 4300ft and 4 miles from the car we turned left off the road and went into the woods towards Lake Eleanor in a round about way.  This time we had gps and made it to the frozen lake.  My hiking buddy walked out onto the lake about 15 feet.  He felt the lake was frozen enough.  I wasn't so sure.On the way back we decided to loop around and meet the road at a different location.  This worked out fine.  Walking back down the forest service rd. became a little boring. We made it back to the car at about 2:30pm which gave us a 6 1/2 hour hike.  11 miles round trip.  5300 ft. max elevation.  2600ft of total ascent.  Next time we come here we plan to show-up in August and ride mt. bikes to the trailhead followed by a hike to grand park.Forest service rd. 73 on highway 410 is not well marked, consequently we missed the turn-off.  After backtracking we managed to find rd. 73. This was our first time to this particular area.  The plan was to drive up forest service rd. 73 as far as we could (without chains),  snowshoe to the trailhead, snowshoe to Lake Eleanor, assess the scenario and continue on to Grand Park.  It was a frustrating day.We were able to park about 3 1/2 miles up the rd at 3000 ft at 8:00am .  At this point I realized I had misplaced my gps.  We hiked up the road using traction devices. Fallen trees blocked rd. 73 at about 10 mile marker, cars unable to get by.  We missed the trailhead and walked about a mile too far, backtracked and finally found the trailhead to Lake Eleanor at around 4300ft.  Following trail was extremely difficult in snow without gps.  Luckily, we were the only snowshoe prints around and this was beneficial for navigation.  After getting to about 4900 ft we gave up looking for Eleanor and headed back.All in all, we were out for 5 1/2 hours and got in about 12 miles of hiking.  It was different not having gps and relying on a compass and altimeter. Conditions were decent and sense of adventure was definetely present.  We'll be back.We did this hike on a warm, cloudless fall day, and found Grand Park to be magnificent. The short climb up to and past Lake Eleanor was unremarkable -- only one boggy spot to cross; we found a few leftover blueberries just before hitting Grand Park to be a tasty excuse for a break. The vast meadow is covered in golden hues now; no less beautiful than when it is carpeted with wildflowers. At the trail junction we turned toward Berkeley Park and found a good shady spot for lunch, then returned. Only saw three other hikers and no critters all day. This hike is easily on of my top five in Washington. A minor road repair (culvert replacement) on FS 73 is passable and will be done soon.The original forecast seemed to weigh against doing this hike.  Then the forecast brightened and then waffled.  Worked out fine but it was the first hike "this Summer" which had a taste of Fall in the air.  There was a chill and actually a cool cloud/fog was wafting over the car at the end.The way to the trailhead has been described so that will be skipped.  I had not been in the backdoor approach for about 10 years.  Then it was early Summer and snow patches.  Now, late Summer and the flowers were mostly spent and the grasses taking on a golden tone.The trail gains only modest elevation to Eleanor Lake.  The trail to Grand Park takes off just as you hit the group camp site.  It slowly gains elevation and then drops into a creek drainage.  Then hits a small pocket meadow with the first views of Rainier.  Back into the woods and steeper climbing up to the entrance of Grand Park.  The Mountain played peekaboo but gave us enough of a view and the lighting was interesting.Still some purple asters but most other flowers have gone to seed.  Spotted a few gentian (as we recalled Enzian over in the Dolomites last summer and a stout liquor, at that).  Hit the junction with the Northern Loop trail.  And sat and ate.  Two guys came in the traditional route so they had done a bit over 6 miles.  Slowly headed out encountering a number of smaller parties also making use of the backdoor approach.Nice day for wandering what really is a GRAND Park.Did the out-and-back from Sunrise through Berkeley Park out to Grand Park and well out into the grassy meadows. Plenty of bugs today, both skeeters and flies, though Grand Park itself wasn't too bad.There's no snow on the trail, and no water in Grand Park, though from Frozen Lake down to Berkeley Park camp there's plenty of water.No big wildlife in Grand Park, a bit of a disappointment. Tons of butterflies on this trail. Berkeley Park is still filled with alpine wildflowers - arnica, lupine, paintbrush, the usual suspects. Grand Park is down to faded brown meadowy grass and is stunning in that respect - a 2 mile long flat expanse of prairie with mountains and The Mountain as backdrop. Reminded me a lot of parts of the Tetons, Yellowstone, Colorado, etc. Really different from the rest of MRNP.With the ramble into Grand Park, about 15 miles roundtrip. I debated adding First Burroughs but it was a warm day and I was feeling dry.Despite the mass crowds at Sunrise, Frozen Lake, First Burroughs, etc., once you drop past Berkeley Park there's almost no one out there. Ran into two solo backpackers, a group of 3 backpackers, and maybe two day hikers after Berkeley Park.Janet wanted to visit Grand Park at Mt. Rainier, going in via the shortcut to Lake Eleanor. Rain was in the forecast but the overcast would hopefully bring out the color of the wildflowers. After not being able to get out the previous weekend I was ready to go regardless of the weather. The drive up Highway 410 was cloudy but dry. Road 73 is in pretty good shape though there are some potholed sections and one deep dip. We arrived at the trailhead at about 8:40 to find one group just heading out and three other vehicles. I expected a lot of bugs though they were only mildly annoying at the start. It was cool enough to allow long pants and sleeves to thwart the bloodsuckers.The trail to lake Eleanor in not an any map I have. I brought my GPS to find out how far it is. The gentle trail goes fast. It has only been 17 weeks since Janet's double knee replacement and this would be the longest hike she has done since the surgery. The GPS showed 1.25 miles to the lake, farther than I would have thought. There was just a little mud on the trail. All downed logs have been cut out. Our stay at the lake was brief as it was buggier.From there we hiked in forest then dropped down to the first meadow. Not many flowers left here. After crossing the meadow we again entered forest. The trail climbs steadily and a few flowers began to show. The avalanche lilies were done along here. The trail steepens and the forest thins as we climbed to Grand Park. The wet shaded area just below the park had some of the best flowers of the day. Asters, a patch of blooming avalanche lilies, magenta paintbrush, lupine, and a host of others. Just a taste of what all of Grand Park looked like a few weeks ago but very nice in it's own right.Janet did fine on the steep steps though they would be harder on the way out. We neared the cloud level as we entered the park. Wispy clouds blew by. The mountain was lost in white but Mt. Fremont and Skyscraper Mountain came in and out of the clouds. We spent a lot of time photographing the peaking flowers just below the park and less time in the park itself. There were still some nice stands of flowers but most were past their prime.I've been in Grand Park on painfully hot summer days when the mosquitoes form a black fog around hikers. I've been there on sunny clear fall days when the grass is bright brown and Rainier is out in all its glory. This day was different but equally enjoyable. The breeze kept the bugs at bay and the clouds provided a more intimate environment. We began to see a few small groups of hikers both heading in and out. At 11:30 we stopped for a lunch break and it was getting pretty cool. Not like most August days in the park.We continued on to the Northern Loop junction and took another short break. From there we went to the far end of Grand Park. When the trail began to descend to Berkeley Park we turned around. There were more flowers here including patches of shaggy headed western anemone. The GPS said we had traveled 5 1/2 miles. It didn't seem that far though the easy walking is deceptive. Two backpackers who had just been down at Berkeley Park raved about the amazing flower display. We were not tempted to descend as 11 miles on Janet's new knees was plenty.On our walk across the park Mt. Fremont had come out of the clouds and even parts of Mt. Rainier appeared. On the way back they were lost in white once again. Still, we had felt only a few stray drops of rain the whole way. My new umbrella stayed in my pack the whole day. Crossing back through the park was easy. More time was spent on the last and best flower display at the far end. The steepest descent is at the beginning and it slowed Janet down. As the grade eased our speed picked up.The trip back was pleasant enough though there seemed to be more bugs in the forest than up in the park. Maybe it was just the lack of wind. While we had a few folks pass us by heading down we did not see any other groups coming in. I guess the wet forecast kept the crowds at home. I don't expect it to be almost lonesome in Grand Park in August. We were back at the car by around 3:15 pm. A nice 6 1/2 hour jaunt in Mt. Rainier National Park.We drove back down the dirt road to Highway 410 and just after entering the highway rain began to fall. It continued to rain all the way home. It looked like most of the area had rain much of the day. We lucked out and had a very nice day for a hike. The overcast kept our photos from being blown out and the rain held off until we were done. A very nice way to spend a "dark wet summer day". This was Janet's first double digit hike since surgery and she is getting stronger each week.40 photos have been posted at: http://www.hikingnorthwest.com. Go to "Trips-2010" on the left margin.Grand Park is the most beautiful thing I have ever seen. Very appropriately named. I only saw a handful of other hikers the whole day. I got about 400 mosquito bites and was stalked by numerous humongous biting black flies, despite layers of bug spray doused on every 10 minutes, but it was completely worth it. It took me three hours to get to the top and two hours back down, but I'm a really slow hiker and like to stop and look at stuff along the way.I actually started this hike from the Carbon River Entrance as training for the Wonderland trail in a few weeks, but I'm making seperate reports for each of the sections.I arrived at Lake Eleanor late around 7:40pm for 11 hours and 50 minutes hiking time for 24.4 miles, and found myself applying bug screen to my whole body as quickly as I possibly  could. The mosquitos were horrendous!!! They were about the only company I had in camp, as I was the only one staying there that night (I think I figured out why). The lake itself is pretty, and is quite a nice place otherwise. After setting up my tent, I enjoyed dinner and was quickly off to bed. Night was pretty warm. After waking at 6am, I was on the trail by 7:45 hiking at a pretty good pace, though my feet were not having a great time with the blisters. In about 40 minutes, I arrived at the beginning of Grand Park. How appropriate a name for such a "grand" place. It is massive and you can only see about a fifth of it at any given time. Takes about a half hour just to walk across it! Coming from the direction of Lake Eleanor, Mt. Rainier makes a perfect back drop to this amazing park, adding more grandeur to this splendid destination. As I was coming to the trail junction at the south end of the park, I looked to the left and was pleseantly surprised to see a bear in the meadow grazing amongst the flowers! From here I was on my way back to the Carbon River Entrance to meet my friend who was picking me up for about 22 miles for the day.Flowers are just barely getting started, marmots & pikas just waking up. There is still some snow on trails in the basin below Frozen Lake, but easy to negotiate. Best to wait a couple of weeks; one of the volunteer rangers guaranteed flowers will be out en force then.I felt bad mushing through some meadowy spots where the beaten snowpath ended at a meadow of trail tread, and won't do that again. Let the snow melt off the trails so you won't have to slog through meadows between bits of tread buried beneath the snow patches. That's what I'll do next year if I show up and find patches instead of either solid snow to walk on, or no snow.The TH is 10 miles from HWY 410 on FR #73. The road has many potholes, but can be driven in any car if driven slowly. The trail gains 1100 ft in 4.5 miles ending at the junction with the Northern Loop trail. This a  beautiful approach to Grand Park and its mile long meadows! Mt Rainier draws you across the meadows and one could wonder for hours among its beautiful flowers! Avalanche Lilies were many on the forest floor from Lake Eleanor and into Grand Park. Magenta paintbrush, Glacier lilies, buttercup, spring beauty, and lupine were seen. The lupine were mostly buds, but will be blooming soon. There were a few short areas of snow as you near the meadows, but they may be melted by now. Mosquitoes were hungry, but tolerable due to the pleasant breeze we had most of the day!The trail from Sunrise is still closed, but the back door trail is open. There is some snow on the trail, but it is pretty easy to deal with. A little slushy and muddy, so don't wear tennis shoes or your feet will get soaked.The wildflowers are starting to bloom, and the views from the top are gorgeous. Don't be confused by the small meadow shortly after the lake, it is nothing compared to the Grand meadow. Head towards Sunrise on 410, make a right on forest road 73, go exactly 10 miles, cross the bridge and park. Trail is by the shot out sign. 73 is a dirt road, pretty full of potholes in places, but not too bad, just slow going.The road to the trail is in good condition, albeit pothole ridden, but no snow. Finding the trail is easy enough from the road, but within a few hundred feet the trail is lost under pretty big snow patches. Luckily we had an experienced veteran of the trail go up just a few minutes before us and her footprints led us in the right direction. When we passed her, we followed the cut trees on the ground and the pink tape tied to the branches above and were just fine.Lake Eleanor is still snow covered but for a small ring of water near the shoreline. The small meadow after the campground is beautiful and if you're lucky you'll see some pretty big toads like we did.The park is still under at least a solid 2-3 feet of snow, so if you have waterproof boots and gaiters, I'd recommend those for at least another month or so. Overall, a great day to get out and enjoy the sun while the mosquitoes are still at bay.Grand Park 10-10-09Weather was scheduled to be sunny and clear, but that was not our case. We arrived at TH around 8:30 and were the first car, it was sprinkling rain and that soon turned to snow. Annie was very excited to see the first dustings of snow on the trail. I just hoped that there might be a small chance that the clouds would part for a second so she could see the Awesome view of Rainer from Grand Park, but no such luck today. It's alright, we can go back again. We saw tons of people in shorts, I called them all crazy.. but that's just cuz I was freezing. We heard many elk calls and hoped for a peek of one of them or a bear, but not much wildlife except birds right now. Not much else to report. Today I met another nwhiker and we headed up to Grand Park the backway via FS RD 73, it's exacly 10 miles to the TH. Lake Eleanor was very beautiful, there were a few fishermen trying there luck today. The trail is very easy only a couple ups with some elevation. The berries are ripe now! Mushrooms are popping up in several places. Some muddy spots from the latest rain. Once we arrived at Grand Park it was breathtaking. The fall colors are just starting to turn. Views of mountain were fantastic! We had a wonderful lunch in a rocky spot just in front of a red patch of color. My new trail buddy whipped up some spam fried rice and it was good! I normally have pb&j but this was really fancy.. Like Rachel Ray on the trail. Good times, I learned lots of good info on map reading, gear, fire starters... just a wealth of knowledge. Ripe huckleberries, running streams, mushrooms, a blue grouse family with 3 chicks, forest, a few lingering wildflowers in the open meadows, a lake, oh ... and of course views of the mountain !! Such an interesting and great day out there, we hardly noticed a few mini rain sprinkles on way out.Though had backpacked from Sunrise to Lake Eleanor a few years back, we'd never entered the Park from the north boundary before.  Road 73 (off 410) is currently not as bad as we'd heard with a few large potholes to watch out for. Closer to 410 there's  a chunk of road falling away at a culvert  plus a deep gutter forming and running for a few hundred yards down the side of the road. The trailhead is by Eleanor Creek, about 10 miles from 410, and of course you can hike as far as you wish, Berkley Park, branching off to Second Burroughs and others favorites. As the clouds rolled in at Grand Park, we were happy we had gloves & warm layers in our packs; so we continued to meander along and met a few backpackers enjoying the remaining days of this terrific summer as much as we were.Map GT 270 Mount Rainier EastThe TH begins on FS Road #73 10 miles from SR 410. The TH is not signed, but is near the Eleanor Creek bridge. In .25 miles you reach the NP boundary and in 1 mile Lake Eleanor. We saw many varieties of fungi along the trail after passing the lake--angel's wings, goats beard, and many we couldn't name. We also saw 2 gnome plants which are very rare. We had a variety of weather--light rain most of the day, but with short periods of heavy rain and wet snow at Grand Park. We were blessed with sunshine and no rain for about 45 minutes while having lunch in Grand Park. We even saw the Mt Fremont LO and the bottom quarter of Mt Rainier and some blue sky for a brief period. This is a very enjoyable hike even in the rain-- 9 miles round trip with 1100 ft elevation gain.I almost didn't report on this wonderful hike that hardly anyone knows. Then I decided it was selfish to keep it to myself. The hike begins by stepping over the boundary of MRNP on an unofficial trail that is in good condition and gets better as you approach Lake Eleanor. There are campsites and an outhouse at the lake, and from there a very good trail goes up, down, and up some more into the magnificent Grand Park with the north face of the mountain right in your face! Walk through the park to the Wonderland Trail. We walked about 10 miles round trip, but you could turn back earlier and still have the view. From Highway 410, just south of the viewing turn-out, turn right (west) on FS road 73. Drive 10 or 11 miles (our speedometers didn't agree) to a riddled sign that once read Eleanor Creek. Parking on the right just beyond the creek. Trailhead just before it. Road 73 has some rough spots, but it's driveable. Lots of biting flies.The title indicates that this trip is via White River but that is not possible at this time of year.  Our access point was via FS 73 off of Hwy 410.  We had to drive 10 rough miles up that road to an unofficial trailhead at the crossing of Ellinor Creek.  The road to Huckleberry Creek is just potholed but be aware of slide possibilities past that point and at least one spot where the road bed is disintegrating.  The park boundary is just east of the crossing of Ellinor Ck(where we parked) and the trail led up to Lake Ellinor in about .7 miles.  The lake was mostly frozen but there was very little snow.  We continued from there through great woods and streams to a lower meadow.  Then there was some uphill to get to the entrance to Grand Park.  We wandered all the way to the south end of Grand Park to the point where the trail intersects the Northern Loop trail and a little further to where the trail begins to descend to Cold Basin.  The good and bad news is that there was very little snow.  That made travel easy but was discouraging for the outlook for the ski/snowshoe season.  The weather was incredibly mild with high overcast.  Mt Rainier looked rather foreboding with a very cold, white appearance.  As we were walking through the park, I verbalized some thoughts about an old movie and the possibility of running naked through the meadow.  Apparently, one of the other people with me, who shall remain anonymous, actually did that several years ago with photos taken to document the fete.  Apparently none of those photos have been posted to the internet, yet.  On our return trip, we ventured far off trail to the eastern edge of the park in search of elk.  We saw plenty of droppings, debarked trees with antler marks, and trimmed grass from critter munching but no elk.  It was not until our return to the car and almost reaching Hwy 410 that 3 female elk decided to appear right at dusk.  This was one of the best trips this year!!We began our hike at the Lake Eleanor TH off Forest Service Road No. 73. In .7 miles we reached Lake Eleanor. The trail climbs almost 800 feet from Lake Eleanor to reach Grand Park which was truly GRAND today! The total distance from the TH to the junction with The Northern Loop Trail is 4 miles. It was 26 degrees when we began hiking, but the sun soon warmed the air to 50 degrees by the time we reached Grand Park. The view of Mt Rainier rising from Grand Park was awesome! The trail is in excellent condition.There was a trace to 1/2 " of  snow on the trail in Grand Park. A back country ranger was hiking in to remove gear at the patrol station near the Northern Loop junction as we began our hike. We saw 3 other hikers who started at our TH and one more group who came in from Sunrise. There was very little fall color except in Grand park itself.Hiked in to Grand Park the quick way from 410 via FS 73 and Eleanor Lake on a cloudy, muggy day after days of clouds and rain. The early part of the trail along Eleanor Creek was a muddy mess and the brush was quite wet. Not surprisingly the mosquitoes were dense. Grand Park had a bit of a breeze, so lunch was mostly mosquito free, and the Mountain offered glimpses in an out of clouds as the next weather system approached. There were still plenty of wildflowers, mostly aster and lousewort, but still occasional lupine, paintbrush, and the beginnings of gentian in the meadows. The road in was much easier to follow than I had expected (used Karen Sykes directions form the newspaper) and the trailhead easy to see across from the parking area. There is a shot up sign for Eleanor Lake near the trailhead. Saw only one other hiker coming out, but as we left there was plenty of Labor Day weekend traffic along 410 where we finally encountered some rain spatters and tour buses at Wapiti Woolies. One bus had folks from cruise ships in Seattle who were on a 10 hour bus tour circling Mt. Rainier. Who knew? And if tours can be profitable circling Rainier, why aren't there hiker shuttles doing the same? Ran into very wet, bedraggled Wonderland hikers last week who had bailed at Sunrise in the dreadful weather and were trying to get to Longmire and their car. Apparently the only option available was for these miserable folks to stand in the rainy Sunrise parking lot and try to hitch a ride.My first visit to Grand Park was not what I imagined but it was still a good time. I took the Berkeley Park approach. BP had the best wildflower show I've ever seen. Example provided. Unfortunately the sun was out and this washed out most of my photos. Can't get a cloudy day when you need one!Trail was good until descending to the lowest point between BP and GP. There some snow was still present for a stretch of about 25 yards. Easy to follow footsteps however.GP was huge and also carpeted with flowers. It could have been an amazing day except just as I got here the clouds rolled in and blocked my view of Rainier for the most part. Lame timing - seemed almost intentionally cruel. On top of that, the mosquitoes here were the worst I've every experienced. Absolutely horrible.On the way back, passing through Berkeley Park, a black bear was standing on the trail munching on plants. I approached cautiously. Once he knew I was there he just stepped off the trail for me to pass and then continued eating. I got several photos but as always each one was just a hair not good enough to post.Many people everywhere. Used most of the day but I was in no hurry - took about 450 photographs.http://www.flickr.com/jasonraceyI left the Sunrise parking lot T/H at 6:45. The whole way was spectacular. Lots of wild flowers in Berkeley Park but was disappointed in the sparsity of them in Grand Park- although there were some. Had never been to Grand so it worth the extra three miles so I went about another half mile beyond the junction on the way to Lake Eleanor. There had been reports of a grizzly bear in Berkeley (along with a picture) in a report from last weekend. I didn't see it but did see some scat that looks just like some I saw last year on the Chilkoot trail near Skagway that was definitely grizzly country. Also, I talked with the park biologist about five years ago on the Napsack Pass trail who checking out a report by an Alaskan resident that she had seen a sow grizzly and three cubs in that area the day before. I truly believe that it is possible that some have migrated down from Canada. It made for an interesting hike on a beautiful cloudless day. There were a few snow patches that were easily traversed and quite q few bugs.Went up to the Grand Park area of Mount Rainier via Emerald Lake taking the trail that begins outside of Mount Rainier National Park but then soon crosses inside of it.Great way to get to Grand Park with only an 8 mile round trip hike. The road to the trailhead on FS road 73 deos get a little beat up and steep! If you don't have a vehicle you want to drive over sharp rocks and over large pot holes I wouldn't recommend this route.The hike overall is in good shape and the views from Grand Park were great even on a cloudy day.I guess there is a lookout over the white river that is supposed to be great but we went the wrong way.... oh well. will have to make another trip up. The trail does have a few small patches of snow still on it.For only wearing deet with shorts and sleeveless shirts we ended up with about 4-6 bug bites mosquitoes each.... not horrible.A group of seven retirees hiked to Grand Park via the Lake Eleanor trail, starting at the Forest Service Road 73 trailhead. The trail is muddy in places and still has one big patch of snow that requires a little head-scratching to find the continuation point.Flowers are out in profusion. The avalanche lilies are barely past their prime, with a few blossoms browning. Lupine and buttercups are at their prime and paintbrush is just beginning to open.We stopped for lunch in the middle of the Grand Park meadow but the mosquitoes made it a short break.A three-person crew was clearing blow-downs along the trail with a chainsaw and pry bars. They had dealt with many big logs by the time we exited.We hiked Sunrise to Northern Loop trail, through Berkeley Park to the junction of Northern Loop Trail and Lake Eleanor trail. There we took a left continuing on Northern Loop trail for about 0.3 miles to a great lunch spot with a drop dead view of the Mountain. About 12 miles round trip. The entire route is in great condition ready to be enjoyed. No windfalls, creeks easily crossed, minimal muddy spots, and the few remaining snow drifts are benign and easy to go over. We encountered a few bugs in Grand Park at mid-day, but the bug dope worked well. Wild flowers were out along the way, but not at prime. We don't know if we were too early or too late. Great hike on a warm day.My friends rightly accuse me of being too optimistic about trail conditions. I thought for sure that even a snow-covered trail up to Grand Park would be easy to follow with all the bootprints. No dice. We got to the unofficial trailhead to Lake Eleanor late, and had a couple of routefinding challenges before we got to the first meadow. At the first crossing of a spur of Huckleberry Creek, we lost the trail completely and our enthusiasm waned. We did enjoy lunch and secondsies at a bug-free Lake Eleanor, and had a quick hike on the Skookum Flats trail on our way out. Sunday evening found us all meeting up at the Naches Tavern in Greenwater. They had just two waitresses for several groups and locals on the patio. The water and beer was cold, so we tried to be patient and tipped well.We started Saturday at Sunrise with many other tourists and day-hikers. After Frozen Lake (1.6 miles) we lost most of the tourists, and by the time we got to Berkeley Park (4 miles) the amount of day hikers dropped off as well. The hike to Grand Park is a lot of up and down, different from our usual ""up the first day, back down the second day"" backpacking trips. Up then down to Frozen Lake, down to Berkeley Park, up to Grand Park, down to Fire Creek Camp. Overall the elevation gain isn't too bad either day. The signage on the trails and maps seem to be inconsistent, but it's around 7 miles to Grand Park, then you can hike 2.5 miles through Grand Park. Wildflowers were spectacular through Berkeley Park, but past their peak in Grand Park. Although the wide open flat meadows are quite a sight in Grand Park. From Grand Park we hike down 1.6 or 2 miles (depending on which sign you trust) to Fire Creek Camp, a forested camp area - nice sites, good water. From Grand Park before you start the switchbacks down to Fire Creek, there is a bald spot on the edge of the trail with great views of the west fork of White River and the mountain. We hiked back up here for breakfast Sunday on our trek back to Sunrise.Sunday on the way back we took a side-hike up to Fremont Fire Lookout. Even though it was a somewhat cloudy day, the views are spectacular and some of the best in the park. We could see the Olympic mountains above the clouds to the west, numerous Cascade peaks to the north, and Mt Adams and other peaks to the east and south. And of course, the main attraction, Mt Rainier.Bugs were around, but not as bad as I had expected. Trails were in great condition. Tourists in the Sunrise area provided some laughs overhearing their conversations.Grand Park (from Lake Eleanor) was my last hike of 2006 and my first hike of 2007! The weather on Tuesday was perfect; the meadows were lovely; what more could one want, except perhaps for more of a breeze? The trail up to Lake Eleanor was muddy in places, but navigable. In the woods shortly before coming out to the park, there was a lovely little grove of avalanche lilies. Grand Park's meadows are primarily a white vista -- bistort and valerian, with occasional groups of magenta paintbrush and lupine, beargrass, and ""mophead"" pasqueflowers. Yellow and purple asters were just about done blooming. Looking low, there were dwarf penstamon and the Mt. Rainier yellow lousewort (had to look that one up after I got home). The Mountain was its usual impressive presence. My friend and I hiked across the truly grand park, turned left at the T-junction, and walked on until we could glimpse upper Berkeley Park....As for this year's hot topic, bugs: The woods had their complement of mosquitoes and gnats, plus a few deer flies; the meadow hummed with bees, but they were apparently too busy at the flowers to bother people. We saw some rather large anthills, too. My friend used OFF; I wore a long-sleeved shirt and long pants. He said he had no bites; I ended up with three, all on my hands.Flowers burn the landscape starting along the drive to Sunrise, reaching a crescendo in upper (northern) Berkeley Park, and lasting all the way into Grand Park. The best flower displays are in upper Berkeley Park starting as soon as you descend into the park, and lasting until the muddy section of the trail a ways before you reach Berkeley Camp - not that the flowers stop at that point, it's just that the flowers can't compete with the climax in the upper part of the park. There are definite reasons not to turn around at that point: the usual bursting of white avalanche lilies just south of Berkeley Camp does not disappoint, and the flowers never stop as you hike towards and into Grand Park. However, the flower displays north of Berkeley Park have been more vivid in previous years. The flowers along the road as you approach Sunrise trumps any displays I saw outside of upper Berkeley Park. Although I hit the trail head late (for me... 7:45 AM) it was lonesome hiking as I came across only a single party (a family of 3 backpackers who had spent the night at Berkeley) as I hiked from Sunrise to Grand Park and then back to Berkeley. I then passed about ten hikers as they descended into Berkeley Park. Of course, once I returned to the trail multiple split at Frozen Lake, trail congestion ensued for the rest of the walk back to Sunrise. My largest complaint was the dew... boot-and-pant-leg- soaking dew... 24 hours later and my boots are still dripping wet. Bugs were few - but they were quick and potent. With the week-long rain there was a bit of mud in the middle of Berkeley Park but nothing too noteworthy.It's flower time at Grand Park. We hiked up through the woods to Lake Eleanor and then climbed the trail to Grand Park. We had lunch about halfway up the Park (it's 3 miles long) enjoying views of the Mountain and the terrific flowers. Starting in the woods with avalanche lilies and violets, the flower show moved to lupine, magneta paintbrush, potentilla, veronia, bistort, white clover, pussytoes, lupine, Sitka valerian, agoseris, arnica, bog orchid, shooting stars and others. In the woods, the queen's cup is starting to bud, there are some Canadian dogwood and lots of creeping bramble in bloom. All along the trail there was lots of huckleberry in bloom; should be a good crop later in the season.We had a partial view of the Mountain as there was some weather coming in. It made for pleasant hiking except for the multiple of mosquitoes. Hordes of mozzies.On the way in there were a few trees down, but the largest have been cut out and the trail is easy to follow. There a few mudholes crossing the damper meadows, but those will be drying out shortly.This is a nice way to approach Grand Park. Today we only saw three other people, one ranger and a couple. We had the place mostly to ourselves. A fine day spent with good company.FloraWent out with friends on Friday. Trail conditon via Lake Eleanor is great. Similar to report on the 2nd. Someone has been in working on the downs in the last few days. Some big ones remain - not bad. The snow patches are melting fast. The big one about a mile before the meadow has gaps and finding the trail is better now. still a little slippery on the steep bit down.Flower blooms - avalanche and glacier lillys are profuse on the way up from about 4800 to 5300 feet. Marsh marigolds and cinquefoil are booming in the lower meadows and marshy spots. The main meadow has a lush carpet of cinquefoil and lomatium with patches of lillies and marsh marigolds. Just a few lupines and paint brush were beginning to show color. Lots of pedicularis greens, but no sign of blossoms yet.I did trail work at Sunrise on Saturday. Not much snow around. Didn't get over to Berkeley Park but I'd guess the Sunrise route to Grand Park will be down to patchy snow in a couple of weeks.The mosquitos are voracious and the sun was intense. You'll want plenty of water and your favorite bug and sun protection.Drove FS Road 73 from SR 410 to the trailhead at Eleanor Creek. Some potholes, but the road is in good condition. No snow anywhere.The usual muddy areas on the hike to Lake Eleanor. Some blow-downs. Three we had to sit and swing our legs over, one we had to remove our packs and go under. Not too difficult.About a mile past Lake Eleanor, there are very small patches of snow. Approx. a half mile from Grand Park, there are large snow fields on the trail. The snow is packed, and not deep. However, if you're not familiar with the trail, you could lose your way here. Wait about two weeks, the snow will be gone and the flowers in full bloom. Some avalanche lilies out now, but worth waiting 'till mid-month.No snow at Grand Park.Another spectacular day in the mountains! We did this hike with Hiker Jim and Sadie's Driver (Sadie was out of town visiting a friend). Since Hiker Jim had done this trip before, he lead us up the Skyscraper Mt. scramble route.We began at the Lake Eleanor TH (FS road 73), crossed Grand Park, and headed toward Berkely Park. About 1/3 mile before reaching Berkely camp we left the trail, crossing the creek, and heading W-SW. Following a faint deer track, we pushed through a short section of brush, entered a high meadow, then continued up steep heather slopes to the summit block. The last section was easy class 2-3 scrambling on good rock. After a short break on the summit we descended via the gentle hiker's tread, quickly joining the Wonderland trail. Now it was just a long, long hike back through Berkely camp and Grand Park.This route was a fun scramble with great views!Distance: 15.5 milesElevation Gain: 3500ftTime: 8:15 minutes RTAutumn has arrived in the mountains. A small group of us hiked to Lake Eleanor and Grand Park today in the misty rain. It was actually quite pleasant in a green and gold kind of way. The forest was very quiet, no other people, no bugs, some late huckleberries, no flowers. Quite an enjoyable walk, as well as drive. We were able to see Mt. Fremont and the bottom chunk of the Mountain but not much else. Good day despite the weather. Snow levels are about 7,000 to 8,000 feet, well above us, and the snow appeared to be pretty thin.Beautiful hike. Berkeley Park is full of flowers and marmots, and Grand Park, while past it's flower prime, is a stunning meadow. The mountain is gorgeous as well, against bright blue skies.The trail from Sunrise to Lake Eleanor is mostly downhill for 8.9 miles. There is a little up at the very beginning for a half mile or so, then another up for about a half mile before entering Grand Park. There is a steep downhill going to Lake Eleanor, that is not as bad going up the next morning after a good rest! Lake Eleanor is a nice enough camp, a small-ish lake in the woods, and we had a nice swim there. Biting flies were everywhere, swarming during the half mile of up before Grand Park, and the mosquitoes were bad Sunday morning coming out of Eleanor, but through Grand & Berkeley Parks they weren't bad - there was a nice breeze most of the time to keep them away.We did an overnight backpack trip in the Grand Park area, staying at Berkeley Camp. The flowers along the way were relatively sparse until we got close to Berkeley -- there they were spectacular. Unfortunately, the bugs were thick. The next day we went over to Grand Park and back. The flowers there looked to be a bit past their prime (the highest number were in the shady areas). It was still quite nice and well worth the walk (it would have been a flower highlight if not for the Berkeley Park extravaganza). As an added bonus, there were little or no bugs at Grand Park. We encountered only two small streams after the stream convergence (a little after Berkeley Park). I would recommend filling up at the convergence unless you can make it all the way to Lake Ellinor.I ditched the dog again this week for a little jaunt into Mt Rainier NP on Monday the 17th, but not having a Nat Park pass or $15, I had to ""sneak"" in via a FS trailhead (it's perfectly legal, bring your NW forest pass). The Lake Eleanor TH off of FS #73 is easily found, and the trail is in excellent shape. Don't believe any reports that this is a fisherman's path or way trail. It is a fabulous trail overall for walking, mostly compacted pine needles, with a couple of muddy spots too insignificant to mention other than to downplay them. No problems with blowdowns were encountered either. Lake Eleanor is reached in one quick mile, then some nice woods are traversed, then it's up a mild ridge to Grand Park. And Grand it is! The flowers! The views! The open meadows! Ok, I'll stop with exclamation points now. It was very nice. Mt Rainier itself was playing peek-a-boo behind the clouds, but I still was able to see Mt Freemont lookout, Burroughs mtn (still snow on approach to B3), and catch a glimpse of people on the Interglacier with my binos. I saw a deer up close and personal, and just lounged around enjoying the cool breeze that kept the hungry mosquitos at bay, at least most of the time, while grooving on the flower show.I hiked out in record speed for a slug, leaving the trail junction of the Grand Park trail and the Northern Loop trail at 7 pm and doing the 4 1/4 miles back to the car in two hours, including two ten-minute breaks. I then drove farther along FS 73 towards the Lonesome Lake area, but stopped at a view spot on Huckleberry ridge due to fog further along the road, and slept in the back of the Subaru.Tuesday morning was cloudless, so I drove over to Lonesome Lake, a nice enough place to visit if you happen to be in the area. After breakfast and liesurely coffee I left LL, and turned left (right as you come in) on the first real road heading towards the mountain (not the jeep path right before LL). After about a couple of miles, I came to a fantastic view campsite overlooking the West Fork White River with a post-card view of Mt Rainier. What a campsite, one of the best I've ever seen. I hung out there for most of the day, then drove back to ""civilization"" stopping off at Kanaskat-Palmer St Park for a dip in the Green River.Did first hike with Brooklake hikers who are in their third year. Nine of us entered Grand Park/Lake Ellinor trailhead via FS Road 73 just outside of MR National Park. Trail enters forest immediately and the park boundary is passed shortly. The trail climbs gently a little less than a mile to Lake Ellinor. Lots of mosquitoes and bugs, especially at the lake (so not the best spot to take a dip!). Camp robber birds only wildlife at the lake. Trail climbs a bit more steadily after lake. After about 2 miles, first opening where there is a marshland/meadow. The start of some nice wildflowers. Trail continues up and at about 2 1/2 miles or so Grand Park is attained. Not as buggy up there. At this point the trail is pretty much flat and open all the way to the junction with the northern loop trail which is about 4 miles from the trailhead. Wildflowers in full bloom. Mt. Rainier in all its glory looms ahead. Also noted the Mt. Fremont lookout to the left. What a beautiful day to visit this area! I want to explore more here. Northern loop trip next? On drive home, visit Wapiti Willies in Greenwater for some of their huckleberry ice cream. Delicioso!We headed up forest service road 73 and hiked into Grand Park via Lake Eleanor on a sunny beautiful day. No bugs at the lake yet! It's about a 1 mile to the lake then the trail goes to the left through the 1st group camp, it's easy to miss the turn and continue on the trail that just goes to the other camps and continues on along the lake for a short while. There were snow patches on the trail about 1/2 mile after Lake Eleanor, but it was easy to pick up the trail by following other hikers' tracks. There were some muddy spots in the 1st meadow as well, but nothing major. The glacier lilies and shooting star were out. Grand park itself was snow free. A fabulous day at the mountain - about 6-7 miles roundtrip.This is a great trip - only about 3 miles into Grand Park. We drove Forest Road 73 to where it crosses Eleanor Creek at an unmarked but very obvious trail, with a small parking area for about 6 cars. The park boundary is within a few hundred yards of the trailhead. The trail was very obvious and had been cleared this year of all deadfall. Lake Eleanor is a pretty little lake about a mile in. From there the trail bears left, drops a small amount (maybe 200 feet) to a beautiful meadow and then climbs through trees and gradually opening to spectacular Grand Park. The further across the park you go the better the views of Rainier. Lots of wandering opportunities - we let our 2-1/2 year old throw his frisbee around the flat park,run on the smooth trail, had a nice picnic in the sun, and walked almost to the Berkley Park trail intersection before heading back to the car. Total about 1100 feet and around 7 miles.We saw only two other small parties, both on their way out as we came in, so we had the whole place to ourselves, with incredible views of rainier and a beautiful fall day.One note: both our little boy and myself were stung by yellowjackets, the forest just about hummed with them. Other wise a fantastic day.Trail clear of snow and no mosquitoes so far. Bear grass and lupine on the way up to Grand Park are at their prime. The wild flowers of Berkeley Park are also at their peak. No bears or elk in Grand Park today. Had to make do by checking out two ant hills. Remember this is 1500 foot elevation gain on the way out. Hard to do on a hot day.Incredible view of Willis Wall and the mountain. One of the best places to sack out at lunch and just watch the mountain. A herd of elk on the road entering the park and two twin fawns. Its the second time we have had the herd on the road. Drive carefully.Quetzalcoatl was along for this trip. Excited by recent reports, we headed for a fogged in MRNP. The backdoor trail from FR 73 is really just a severely wet and muddy boot path to Lake Eleanor. You will get wet on this trail, if only briefly. The real trail meanders a bit, crossing a soggy meadow before reentering trees. The only steep part is followed by a wide-open Grand Park. A deer ran at us, and then by us at top speed. I don't know if I could have gotten out of his way. The flowers are absolutely raging from top to bottom! The paintbrush is not red, but a flaming pink, perhaps fuchsia. On this overcast, sometimes misty day, the colors kept my eyes on the ground. We wandered all the way to the Northern Loop, and turned left for Berkeley Park. We got into the cloud ceiling, and cool rain began to fall. We turned back short, and decided to explore over towards Scarface. We left the trail heading due north, trying to access the south ridge. We followed animal trails, seeing quite a lot of bear sign. As we headed down it became quite brushy, and exceedingly wet. As we turned back, I found it hard to care since the peak was totally fogged in. We did see another path heading up the east ridge of Scarface from the trail just above 5000'. Mozzies were brutal.R/T 9 miles, cumulative gain 1500', 5 hours away from the carI wasn't expecting lonesome hiking on a great sunny day with audacious flower displays, but lonesome is what I got. Except for the crowds at Sunrise, passed only one couple all day - and they were not intending to hike much beyond Berkeley Park. The flowers started on Sourdough Ridge in small numbers and increased in intensity the closer one got towards Grand Park. On the long curve that heralds the start of the Northern Loop Trail, a handful of flower-sniffing marmots waddled along the trail. Avalanche lilies were out in force deep in Berkeley Park with a scattering of wild flowers uphill. Past Berkeley Park the flower show never seemed to let up. The displays of bear grass in the last mile and half before the junction of the Grand Park trail were thick and endless (see photo). Grand Park seemed a bit of a let down after all the flowers along the trail - but there were still waves of color splashing across the park (see photo). Trail was in good shape all the way - so good it hardly felt like the advertised 16 miles (perhaps it was just the gentle up-and-down 2500 ft elevation gain that made the hours pass so easily). Hiked from Sunrise to the middle of Grand Park in under 6 hours without breaking a sweat. Not sure why anyone would want to take the backdoor route to Grand Park from FS 703 when the main treat is the trail between Berkeley and Grand Parks. The few insects flying around seemed too drunk on pollen to be a pest. A bigger bother (though it wasn't really a bother) was the Bear Grass pollen that painted white paisley stripes across my shorts. Such a sunny day at Mt Rainier that I got my first sun burn of the season. The bursting flower displays along this trail are the type of fireworks I like best.We decided to sneak in the back way to Grand Park to see the flowers. Forest road 73 is in great shape and Eleanor creek is 10 miles in. The small parking area is on the north side of the creek but the unmarked trailhead is on the south side. There is a sign marking the border of the Park a short ways in. The first half mile is muddy, buggy, a bit steep and with many blow downs; but, the trial is in good shape and easy to follow. The campsite at Lake Eleanor is buggy.Next the trail, which is the usual cadillac style of the Park, works it way up a ridge and then down to a small meadow with several small ponds. The flowers here were multicolored and in full bloom. After this meadow, we headed up a ridge on a fairly steep trail and encountered sheets of avalanche lilies as we neared 5200 feet. At 5500 feet, the trial opens into Grand Park and the rest is gravey. The trail eases through at least a mile of the meadow to join the Northern Loop Trail. Flowers were all over with sheets of paint brush, buttercups and lupine. Mt. Rainier just became bigger and bigger as we strolled thorugh the park. At we reached the upper end, the clouds started forming and it was completely clouded in by the time we left the park. We spent several hours just roaming through the meadow.This trail is about 4 miles each way and gains about 1000 feet. No snow at all but patches of mud and the blow downs at the beginning become more annoying on returning to the car.After reading the last report on Grand Park (1/31/05) we decided to check out the back entrance ourselves. We first attempted the ""back way"" into the back way to avoid any gates. Signficant snow was encountered 2-3 miles before the ""trailhead"". We turned the car around here and went back to Hwy 410 to try our luck w/ FS 73. I think a vehicle with better ground clearance and traction tires/chains could make it this route, but its not necessary.The gate on FS73 is open. There's sigificant rockfall on the road, but are passable. We encountered snow on the road the last 200 yards before Eleanor creek. Although the trail isn't marked on the Green Trails maps, it does have a trailhead board about 50 feet into the woods. The trail itself is free of underbrush and is snowfree, but does have a good ice coating. Instep crampons would make the route much easier. 20 minutes of fast, icy hiking had us at Lake Eleanor which is still frozen. Another 45 minutes to took us to the last approach to Grand Park. The last 400 feet of climb are in significant snow. Snowshoes would be very useful here as we postholed through 4-6 feet of snow. Grand Park is snowcovered in the same 4-6 feet with a few islands of trees being snow-free. Great views of the mountain encased in white from this point.Lessons learned: 1-FS 73 is driveable to the TH and is preferable to the other approach 2-Instep-crampons would have been useful, but not necessary 3-Snowshoes are highly advisable for the last section 4-This is a much faster/easier approach than the ""official"" Sunrise approach.Ever since hiking the Wonderland Trail a few years ago I've wanted to try the Northern Loop at Mt. Rainier. People say great things about it. People are right. With 4 other adventurers we set off at 8:00am from the Sunrise parking lot on Friday morning and headed towards Frozen Lake to do the loop counter clockwise. Weather was perfect - clear and warm during the days and crisp during the nights. Our stops were at Lake Eleanor, Lake James, and Mystic Lake. The long walk through Grand Park was beautiful (check out the picture). Ever since spotting that huge flat expanse of Grand Park from Skyscraper Pass on the Wonderland Trail, it has been a goal of mine. It's well worth the effort. The Northern Loop trail is in great shape and just as tough as advertised. The trip from Lake James to Mystic Lake (with a sidetrip to the Natural Bridge) was about all the hiking we ever want to do in a day. We were a seriously beat bunch by the time we stumbled into camp. The climb up along the Carbon Glacier in the heat of the afternoon was rough (especially at the end of a long day). But along the way the morning spent at Windy Gap (check out the other picture) was sensational as our group spotted 4 bears! All in all, a fantastic trip with some great friends. I highly recommend it.SIE, Mr. Bubbles and I left a car at the Lk Eleanor TH on FS Road 73 and headed up to Sunrise for a 11.5 mile flower hike one way. The flowers in Berkeley Park were absolutely supreme.Head up to the ridge and at Frozen Lake branch off first on the Wonderland Trail then split again to Berkeley Park, dropping through rocky areas with flowers into the flower explosion of Berkeley Park and the sparkling water of the flowing stream.The trail climbs a few hundred dusty feet through fields of dying Beargrass into the dry meadows of Grand Park. A previous WTA report remarked on the flower show - what a difference a few days of hot weather make. Flowers were unremarkable, though a few patches were colorful as the trail drops into buggy forest on its way to Lk Eleanor and the awaiting car.By 5:45 we were back eating a sack dinner at Sunrise while awaiting other friends. By 6:45 we headed out to Shadow Lake and up to First Burroughs where two of the friends remained. We arrived a few minutes before sunset. SIE, Mr. Bubbles, DML and Mrs. DML and I then headed up to Second Burroughs to await the 9:20 moonrise.The moon arose, red and large, to the southeast approximately over Chinook Pass. By 9:45 or so we headed back to Sunrise via headlamps. The few snowfields, especially around Frozen Lake, seemed illuminated. By 11:30 we were on the road and home by 1:45.More photos at http://mtnlover.smugmug.com/gallery/181506Grand Park is putting on an above average flower show this year.We went on Wednesday and it was obout peak. It should be good for the weekendIf you long for a close up view of mt. Rainier and don't have time to drive to entrances at Sunrise or Paradise, this back door hike into Grand Park is for you. Only an hour and 3/4 from Seattle is this glorious surprise spectacle of Mt. Rainier as you walk towards it, drinking in the beauty. Ten miles south of Greenriver and 10 miles in on forest service road 73 gets you to Eleanor Creek and a few parking places. Starting at 4200 ft elavation, we found our way along an unmaintained track over several big blow downs to the National Park Boundary at 1/4 mile. From there the trail is better maintained to Lake Eleanor. Very buggy, both mosquitos and those pesky deer flies. No one was camping at the lake. Even now there are some interesting flowers, although the fields of Avalanche lilies are gone. The Pendicularis Rainierensis (a modified Bird beak stalk flower) was fun to identify. Several other parties were lunching in the park but there is vast space for privacy. Altitude in the park around 5600. We left Seattle at 8 am and returned by 4:30 having done an 8 mile round trip.The forecast for today was sun in the morning, clouds and possible rain in the afternoon, so S and I decided to do a reasonably early and easy hike down at MRNP. We chose to go up to Grand Park via the Lake Eleanor trail (accessed from FS Road 73). I've always been intrigued by that big flat green expanse in the middle of the park! Other than a little bit of mud and some easily navigated fallen trees, the trail is in decent shape and not too strenuous. Once we got up to Grand Park, the mountain views were stupendous, the wildflower display was amazing, and the bugs...my god, the bugs! Any part of me not covered with DEET is now covered in mosquito bites. After taking lots of pictures and wandering about for awhile, we headed down just as the clouds were rolling in (and the crowds were heading up). Despite how much I'll be itching the next couple days, this trip was worth it. If you want to see a great flower show, go now!I have seen Grand Park from a distance multiple times over the years but never visited. It stands out in the distance from many Mt Rainier vantage points like an out-of-place golf course. I approached from the Lake Elleanor trail which is accessible from FS road 73 via the 410 hwy, a few miles SE of Greenwater. The Grand Park plateau is so quickly accessible that it almost seems the hike is not entirely validated without scrambling off on a side-trip. From the meadow, me and my hike partner, walked the trail in a southerly direction to the base of the hill supporting the Freemont Lookout and humped ourselves up through the timber following, more or less, the old lookout-radio wire which is still quite visible on the ground. About a 2000' climb. We eventually tagged the Lookout, had lunch, and tip-toed down a northface snowfield into ""Cold Basin"" which I do not recommend for anyone this time of year due to the mosquito population, although, we were rewarded with an adult Black Bear sighting which is something I doubt happens too often closer to the main trail system. Anyway, after a long day, we then rejoined the Grand Park trail that leads back to Lake Elleanor and paused to notice the beauty of Mt Rainier as it peaked behind the clouds, as well as the multiple wildflowers displayed. Lupines, bear grass, paintbrush. Very lovely, and a great family-hike.Woke up early Sunday, checked the 4:15am weather reports, and decided a trip to Rainier was in order. Arrived at Sunrise at 7:45 to find maybe six cars in the lot. Nice and quiet. Started out at 8:00am sharp, heading west towards Berkely Park. I met one older couple on a short sunrise-viewing hike, but after that, complete solitude. There are some patches of snow that can be easily crossed, the largest being maybe 150 ft. long. Good trekking poles would prevent any slips. The trail is in very good shape, with some small wet/muddy patches. Flowers are starting to bloom, and vary by elevation. At the junction of the Northern Loop trail and Grand Park, there were swarms of those nasty, small mosquitoes. That limited my first rest stop to about 90 seconds. Once I headed into the trees, however, they were gone. Between Grand Park and the West Fork White River, most of the significant blowdown was been removed from the trail, but there are some logs left, which are easily negotiated. There is a freshly hewn log brige at the river. The Redstone Burn wasn't as bad as I thought. I passed through the area while on the WT last summer, and talked to the smokejumpers at the patrol cabin. I thought that the cabin might have been incinerated, but the fire didn't get that close. For whatever reason the old Redstone camp has been relocated and is now James Camp, closer to the lake of the same name. Hopefully the same toilet isn't being used. I'll bring a couple of cherry bombs on my next trip just in case! I hiked on to Windy Gap, arriving at 2:15pm. It was overcast, but only slightly breezy. Bright sun would have made for beautiful photos, as the avalanche lillies are in full bloom, nodding their heads in the breeze. The lake (name?) at the top is still over half frozen. There are still significant snow patches in the meadows, but once again the trail is 90% clear. The return trip was fairly gruelling,as it was the first time i've gone UP the switchbacks between the West Fork and Grand Park. It was in here that I some backpackers, who were either doing the Northern Loop or the whole WT. I was fairly exhausted by time I hit the trail junction at Frozen Lake. Crowds of day hikers were racing towards Burroughs Mt, probably trying to catch a sunset. Mt. Fremont's summit appeared to be socked in by a small cloud. Got back to Sunrise at 7:40pm. Great day! Not too hot, not too cool. Lots of beargrass, glacier and avalanche lillies, heather, blueberry (flowers), lupine, etc. etc.Distance: 27 miles R/T Time: 11.5 hoursGrand Park on Mount Rainier Trip 2004Had a great , 3 day, winter snow camp trip to Grand Park on Mount Rainier. For this trip you will need winter camping skills, route finding skills, avalanche awareness/experience, and be a decent skinny skier. Don't try this if you don't feel comfortable with these skills. My wife, Beth, and I took off from the snow park area off of forest service road 73, on the way to Crystal Mountain, at about 4:00 AM. The trip leads up the forest service road for 9 miles over Huckleberry Creek at about mile 5 to the trail head at Eleanor Creek at mile 9. We had clear skies with a half moon lighting our way and hit daybreak at about Huckleberry Creek. We passed a few potential avalanche slopes on the West side of the ridge before the Eleanor Creek trail head. The snow as was stable as reinforced concrete but had a build up of surface hoar which while beautiful presented a concern with respect to future snowfall. At the trail head we set a bearing of N 237deg E and stuck to it. Its up about 500 feet but no big deal, easy terrain. {Etrex Vista GPS won't work in the high timber so bring you old fashioned compass) We arrived at Lake Eleanor at about 3:00PM. We aren't young wipper snappers anymore so it took us a while. Given the late hour we decided to camp at Lake Eleanor which was a wise choice. Had lots of sunshine a good dinner and a made lots of hot water on the stove for the sleeping bags. Hit the sack by about 7:00 PM and had a good nights sleep. Next morning we hit the trail to Grand Park at about 10:00 AM after some fine dining. From the lake at about 5,000 ft. elev. we set our course at N 130 deg E and maintained that for .4 miles until we hit 4921 foot elev. at which point we changed our bearing to N 224 deg E and maintained that until we hit Grand Park at about 5,570 ft. elev. We arrived at about 3:00 PM again. You will need to find and cross a snow bridge over one healthy creek on the way and it is a steady uphill trip after the first downhill. We arrived to broken clouds with intermittent sunshine. The mountain, as usual made its own weather and it was wonderful. Again we set up camp with the intent of staying in Grand Park the next day and just skiing around for the day. During the night we had about 9 inches of snow dumped on us. In the morning it was just beautiful with all the fresh snow and it looked like, and weather prediction was for lots more snow. We remembered the slopes we crossed with the surface hoar and decided that we probably shouldn't stay another day but rather head back before those slopes got big loads on them on top of the surface hoar marbles. So we took off at 9:00 AM and arrived back at the car by about 4:00 PM (12 miles out). Better to live to fight another day. Great trip all in all 24 miles, 3,500 foot elevation gain /- in 3 days. Lest I forget you will need telemark skis with metal edges and climbing skins or don't even try it (snow shoes would work, but why??) Needless to say we didn't meet another sole for the whole trip but saw lots of critter tracks including some very fresh cougar tracks.Good TimesRudy & BethLeaving Enumclaw early Saturday morning, we headed east on 410 and turned up FS Rd 73. The trailhead is approximately 10 miles in. We figured we would be alone on the trail, due to the icy conditions on the access road, but shortly upon our arrival at the trailhead, a couple cars showed up. Most of the blowdowns on the trail are easily stepped over, with a couple to detour around, on the way to Eleanor Lake. From the lake to Grand Park, the trail is remarkably clear for an unmaintained trail. It appeared that it had not snowed in the past several days, as there were many tracks going up the trail. Once we arrived at Grand Park, the view of the mountain provided a spectacular view. Building its own weather system, the mountain soon began to disappear in the clouds. Although the trip up was mostly clear, the approaching clouds from the south forced us to beat a hasty retreat back to the car. Heading back down the trail, we met one more couple on their way to the Park - a very busy trail this late in the season. I definitely recommend carrying chains to anyone planning to drive FS Rd. 73 from now until it is closed for the winter, as it is rather steep and icy in places.My partner and I decided to try and get one more day hike in before winter hits. Grand Park trail to Elinor Lake from Rd. 73 was our starting point. Beautiful day, tempature probably in the 20's but not a cloud in the sky.Road 73 has snow from the gate to the trail head. No problem for a four wheel drive as the snow is not deep. Steep areas however may be slippery for two wheel drive vehicles. We saw several Elk hunters driving the road.Trail into Elinor was easy to follow with boot tracks from previous hikers in the snow. If much more snow falls on the trail then it may be difficult to find. For some reason there are several trees accross the trail that obviously have been there for a while. Most trails I've hiked have a cut through the trees. I'm told that road 73 closes after the first heavy snow so finding the trail may not matter?What a gorgeous place Grand Park is! Fresh snow had covered all the open space and we were probably about the fifth and sixth people to walk on it. Snow was 2-3 inches deep average with drifts deeper. We hiked well into the Park and sort of made a loop. Just walking around and seeing it was inspiring!A great day in one of the worlds most beautiful places!Believing the weather forcast, Super K and I left Kirkland early Saturday morning so we could catch Mount Rainier in sunshine from Grand Park.....But instead we had gray overcast skies.....and chilly at 30 degrees.Taking Highway 410 going northeast 5.2 miles past Greenwater, we exitied on FS 73. The forest service road crosses Huckleberry Creek then heads uphill. The trail head is near a signed location indicating Elinor Creek el. 4250 ft. (although the sign is shot up by those brave intrepid hunters). The trail is unmaintained with a slight dusting of snow and meanders through the trees. There are both old and new blow downs but all are easily walked over or around. The first mile gains only a few hundred feet to 4,950 at Lake Elinor then continues on to Grand Park. At the last 1/2 mile approching Grand Park the trail trench is filled with water and solidly frozen over and very slippery forcing us to walk beside the trail.At Grand Park, there had been an accumlation of a couple inches of soft dry snow...making a pleasant crunch under the boots. We continued on to the junctiion at the west end of the park (el. 5616 ft) had our picnic and then made our back to the truck. On our return we stopped to chat with a pair of lady hikers who also had determined that this may be the last good weather weekend to visit the Park.The weather wasn't what we had hoped for...but it was still a good late fall hike. With a little more snow accumulation it will be time to get the snowshoes out for those glorious winter hikes.After the floods of last week Gary and I struggled to find a good hike. I had not been down to Highway 410 or Mt. Rainier this summer and that was my first choice. However, with Highway 410 closed at the park boundary that didn't seem like a good choice. Gary came up with a great idea I would not have thought of. The plan was to hike into Grand Park from the north of the park and then to scramble up Skyscraper Mountain. By trail this route would be 17 miles and with the short days of fall would leave no time to enjoy the scenery. Instead we hoped to scramble up from Berkeley Park and save time and distance while getting in an unusual scramble. We met in Kent at 6:50 while it was still dark. We were on the trail at 8:30. There were 2 cars at the trailhead with wet windshields that has been there overnight. It was chilly when we started but warmed up quickly. In only 20 minutes we reached Lake Eleanor. The trail continued in forest then dropped down to the first meadow. We had our first look at the mountain with a few clouds around it. They were the only clouds in the sky. We were surprised to see that with all the rain in the past week a small tarn in the meadow was totally dry. On the whole trip there were no new trees down or signs of water damage. It seemed like the rain shadow on the north side of the mountain received a lot less rain than areas nearby.We crossed the meadow, reentered the forest and began the climb up to Grand Park. I have been to Grand Park several times in the past. It is an amazing flower field in the spring and summer. I found it to be much different in the fall. It was still beautiful but in a much different way. We broke out into the park after one hour of hiking. We slowed down from here as there were many photo opportunities. The clouds around Rainier had mysteriously disappeared in the short time it took to hike up from the lower meadow to Grand Park. The park is huge and it took more than a mile of hiking to cross it. Views to Mt. Fremont opened up soon and then Skyscraper Mountain came into view.We reached the intersection with the Northern Loop trail at 4 miles. It was now warm enough that we stripped down to shorts and short sleeve shirts. Shortly after our break we reached the high point of the park at about 5700'. From there we began to drop down out of the park towards Berkeley Park. We had a couple of good views through the trees of the side of Skyscraper Mountain. Originally we thought about scrambling up towards Skyscraper Pass on the southeast side of the mountain. From our viewpoint it looked possible to head up much earlier and ascend the northeast side. It was not a sure thing but it looked like a good gamble. Down we hiked into the valley below. Where we first reached the creek we decided to head off cross country. The first problem was to get across the creek. We went upstream several hundred feet and found a spot where we could get across with dry feet. We headed towards Skyscraper and came into a good sized meadow. Above the meadow it climbed steeply through thick brush and trees at first. Higher up the brush gave way to open heather. The trick was to get there. Gary wanted to go to the left side and we did. A short way up was a small creek. On the other side was what looked like a trail. This route wound through thick brush saving us a lot of scrapes and bruises. If it was just an animal trail it was one of the best I've seen. As we came through the crud the trail disappeared but it didn't matter. The route was now on steep heather. There was a little thin snow in places to make it a little slick.From a distance we saw open heather slopes ending at a rock wall. From there we expected to have to traverse a narrow section to get back to open slopes. In reality it was heather all the way up. The narrow section turned out to be so wide we never knew where it was until looking back up on the way out. A ridge to our left would have to be crossed and we had no idea what the terrain was like on the other side. We reached the ridge within about 100' of the summit. From the ridge we had to drop a little and traverse the slope. It was not bad but we still could not see if it could get us to the top. We crossed another rib and saw the summit. We went up a loose rock section, crossed it and make it onto solid rock. The last section looked bad but actually was no trouble. At 12:40 we reached the summit. From 7065' the view was spectacular. Fremont, the Burroughs, Little Tahoma, Rainier, Old Desolate, Sluiskin peaks were all clearly visible. We were surprised to see the Columbia Center in Seattle clearly without binoculars. The best part was that with road access to the whole northeast side of Mt. Rainier closed off there were no people. We could see over to near Frozen Lake and there were no people all day. It was a one time event to have this whole part of the park to ourselves. Whatever snow was here was washed away by the rain. Below 8000' there are only a few small patches.From the summit we could see lakes out on the northern loop. We also could see Mystic Lake. I was really surprised by that. With the sun and total lack of wind on top it was superb. An hour went by fast and then another half hour. At 2:20 we finally packed up to go. We had seen one goat down below us and two more on the side of Mt. Fremont. As we prepared to leave we saw a big group over near Frozen Lake. With binoculars we were able to count 11 goats. For the descent we decided to take trails to save our knees. We quickly dropped down to Skyscraper Pass. It looked possible to drop down from the pass but to lower part was murky so we stayed on trail. The route dropped down while heading away from Grand Park. We saved about 3/4 mile with a shortcut and continued down the Berkeley Park trail. At one point a full sized creek popped out of the ground. I have never seen a spring that begins with a wide creek. The descent was gradual along the creek. We estimated that at a good pace we could reach the car right at sundown and we proceeded apace. Gary recognized where we left the trail for our scramble. From there it was uphill as we climbed back up to Grand Park. The sun was in line with Skyscraper making it tough to see our route. We were able to figure out where we had been though. The rest of the way out was just a nice ""walk in the park"". The golden grass of Grand Park was so different from how it appears in the summer. We reached Lake Eleanor again at 5:40 with 25 minutes left before sundown. We reached the car just before dark.This turned out to be one of the best trips of the year. We saw zero people and 15 goats. I never expected to be near Sunrise and not see a single person. The scramble proved to be lots of fun. Part of it was not knowing until the last 50 feet if we would make it or have to retreat. The weather was sunny and warm but not hot. We used almost every minute of daylight and had over 1 1/2 hours on the summit. The totals were 15 miles with 3500' gained. The scramble gained 1650' in .80 miles. What a great way to finish the high country hiking season.Four pages of photos have been posted at: http://www.hikingnorthwest.com. Go to ""Trips-2003"" on the left margin.Hiked in from FS Road 73 via Lake Eleanor. The trail is in good shape, although there must be 20 or so trees to scramble over on fishermans trail from the road to the lake. Pretty buggy near the lake and up to Grand Park, but no bugs once in the meadows! We saw a black bear toward the top of the wooded section between the lake and park - our first wild bear sighting! Great views in the meadow, a wonderful hike.Beautiful byway. Beware bugs, bugspray barely beats biters back. Blowdown barriers by backdoor beginning, but basicly bridgable. Blooms bountiful.Sunrise is a deservedly popular Rainier destination. The easy access to the over 6000' meadows are like free cake. I've often used the trail near there as an introduction for out-of-towners or newbies - my favorite being the Sourdough/Burroughs Loop.For this trip I headed out a bit farther - to Berkely Park and Grand Park. This trip actually drops a bit in elevation from the start, but you still have an elevation gain of roughly 500' going in. The return trip is maybe double that.Grand Park is truly that. It is the largest flat space inside the Naitonal Park. Though dry it makes a superb destination, and I will make another trip here via Lake Eleanor and FS 73 as described in other trip reports.In contrast Berkely Park is quite wet, and surrounded by magnificent crags. The flowers, and bugs, are both thriving, though Grand Park shows signs of starting to dry out.The one way is 6 or 7 miles, making for a nice moderate elevation day of mileage. The crowds are dense near Sunrise but thin considerably once you pass frozen lake and almost disappear once you take the Berkely Park cut-off.Next time I'll try Mystic lake in a day...-D.L.Sunrise access is still closed for another few weeks, so we decided to try to hike in the back way to Grand Park. FS Road 73 is snow free up to the trailhead. The trail itself, however, is 95% snowcovered, and the route was quickly lost. We had never hiked this trail before, so not knowing the way, tried to just follow Eleanor Creek up, assuming we would reach Lake Eleanor in this manner. After 1+ hours of bushwhacking, post-holing, and general hacking through the snow and brush, never really seeing a trail, we reached a small pond, but I doubt this was Lake Eleanor.... We will have to try again another day after more snow has melted.This looked like a great day to get up to Grand Park via FS73/Lake Eleanor before the snow got too deep, and was it ever!Temperatures were right around freezing in the forest, but in the mid 30s to near 40 out in the sun, even up at Grand Park. Zero snow on the trail until about 5200-5300 feet, just a short distance before you actually get to Grand Park. As was noted on the 23rd, there are a few trees over the 'unofficial' trail before you get to Lake Eleanor, but more or less all of them are just step across, no climbing.The snow up at the top is not very deep, at most 6"". It's hard, but only hard enough in the shade to not give way underfoot. I brought snowshoes, but had no need for them, as Grand Park itself had very spotty snow, plenty of grass still showing. No wind blew anywhere on this trip. It took me two and a half leisurely hours to get up to the Northern Loop Trail junction, two hours down, during which time I encountered four other groups of hikers. There's a well worn boot trail in the snow about halfway through Grand Park.Very quiet and very pretty up there this time of year. Rainier plus Fremont, Burroughs, Skyscraper, etc, all have clean white coats now instead of the summer grunge.Get up there while the getting is good!Pictures will be on my web site some time in the next week:http://www.aaroncgilbert.com/hiking2002.htmlAaron GilbertWe were planning to hike to Grand Park from Sunrise, but the road is already closed for the winter! Fortunatly, through some networking, we found an alternate route via the Lake Eleanor trail. This trail starts on FS road 73 at about the 4500 foot elevation, where the road crosses Eleanor Creek. Although unmaintained, the trail is in good shape. There are a few blow-downs, but they are easy to negotiate. Once you get to Lake Eleanor (approx. 1.5 miles from the trai head) the trail is well maintained. From Lake Eleanor to the junction of the Grand Park trai with the northern loop trail is approximately 3.3 miles. We encountered thin crusty snow as we approached Grand Park. While much of our hike had been under blue skies, only to be sourrounded by swirling fog when we were hiking through Grand Park....not good for what we had hoped would be some spectacular photo opportunities, But, it was still a great day for an outing.This trail was closed this afternoon due to forest fire, so anyone planning on hiking it this weekend might want to check the trail's status with the park. The fires began just before entering Grand Park (coming from the FS Road #73 trailhead). Crews were working on smothering the small fires (we never saw flames, only smoke) as we passed by; they said that we could go take a peek at Grand Park but shouldn't linger, as the trail boss was planning on closing the trail that afternoon. We could see smoke rising from another one or two areas at the edge of the park as well. That said, the view of the mountain was fabulous.Grand Park -With news Friday that the West Nile Virus is now confirmed in Colorado, we quickly rallied three generations of family members for what may be one of the last opportunities for the old and young alike to enjoy a good bug fest in the high country.We certainly were not disappointed as everyone had the opportunity to wave their arms and swat at countless mosquitos and black flies, both on the trail and once into Grand Park. Mt. Rainier presided over the Park in grand fashion as high clouds slowly appeared to help filter the intense noon-day sun.Only several times during lunch did the breeze blow hard enough to ruin the fun. The rest of the time was enjoyed with a sandwich in one hand while the other conducted the soundless orchestra enjoyed by seasoned bug lovers, punctuated by the occassional sound of a slap. Several stunning new dance moves were also exhibited by party-members and the author recorded a record four (4) mosquitos in the eye today -- a true mosquitoquinnella.By the time we reached the cars, everyone sported a nice collection of insect carcasses and splatterings of blood on areas of exposed skin. The ride home provided time for contemplation knowing that the children of tomorrow may not be able to enjoy an unprotected day in the high country ever again.Leave the DEET and Skin So Soft at home, strip down and bare that skin and celebrate the freedom of being eaten alive while the only risk is a pesky itch that will be gone in time for the trip next weekend! This may be your last chance...- Donald Larkin Trail Team and Family ""Itchin' to Go Hiking Again...""Went in the back way, inspired by the trip reports. The first .7 miles into Lake Elizabeth does have lots of blow-downs but none that present any major obstacle. Bugs were voracious all the way up to Grand Park, so much so I put on my Gore-Tex parka to get away from them. They continued to attack my hands, even as I moved them to swat the bugs!Just approaching Grand Park the flowers were in full bloom with lots of butterflies. But once in Grand Park (at a few hundred feet higher elevation) it was past flower season. Contrary to an earlier report I doubt there will be many berries because most plants aren't producing any.I've desired to see Grand Park in the northern portion of Mount Rainier National Park for many years but just haven't ever gotten there. Not one to make a 16-18 mile hike to it when it can be done from outside of the park in only 9-10 miles I headed to the unsigned Eleanor Creek trailhead to Lake Eleanor up FS Road 73 exactly 10 miles from SR 410. I also packed along with me my own personal meteorologist as Michael Fagin of Washington Online Weather (W.O.W) joined me for the day. The previous day we sort of knew the weather wasn't going to be too bad, but we both were thrilled to be waking up to drive in sunshine from Enumclaw the rest of the way. The clear crisp weather felt like mid-September as the temps were likely only around 45 degrees. The quick mile to Lake Eleanor was a lot of fun. Entering the national park boundary in about 100 yards from the road the trail zig-zags around trees and over blowdown and through mud and is easy to navigate through it all as well. Queens cup, bunchberry, and alpine strawberry are flowering all through here. A quiet Lake Eleanor was appreciated for a moment and we continued on toward Grand Park. The first wet meadow crossing about a mile from the lake was sporting a lovely flock of elephant head wildflowers in full bloom. We couldn't believe we didn't see any wildlife here but we weren't early enough to meet the likely masses of elk and bears since Michael wouldn't get up and leave at 3:00am with me like I do sometimes! Ha ha ha. From here the trail steepens for a mile and suddenly we were thrust out of the trees into the first small meadows that rolled like an ocean of colorful flowers. Avalanche lilies, magenta paintbrush, lupines, small-flowered penstemons, asters, bistort, all were so thick that it was immediate sensory overload to take it all in! The Mountain was fully dominating the southern horizon the entire time for the next three hours as we slowly, very slowly, strolled the distance from one end of the vast meadows making up Grand Park to the southern end at the Northern Loop Trail junction. Ravens swooped around in the wind---oh, the wind, it was perfect! Basically no bugs! There was no end to the enjoyment of the massive areas of wildflowers all while Mount Rainier was hovering to the south like a massive space ship only five miles away. It was fun to see the Mount Freemont lookout as well. This entire trek was done to ourselves...we saw no one until we hit the junction with the Northern Loop Trail. Here we hiked it a bit and then hid ourselves behind an island of alpine fir trees to lay down in the meadow to enjoy a long lunch looking out in all directions at the vast parkland, all while no bugs were around to bother us. I'd guess there may have been a freeze one of the previous nights up here at 5700' to help us out too, but the breeze was our friend in a big way. A pair of Hairy Woodpeckers flew right to us, hummingbirds darted to and from the trees, and we were entertained throughout lunch by the acrobatics of no fewer than eight bluebirds at any given time hovering and swooping around in the meadowland in front of us! Before Michael could sleep the day away we hauled ourselves back onto the trail and began the five-mile hike back out. Just as we started out across Grand Park to leave the clouds began to hide large areas of the mountain views and the winds picked up more. By the time we reached the lake area is was downright cold. The trailhead was cool and calm, but a pack of mosquitoes were partying there and we almost didn't make it out alive. The drive back down the 10 miles of gravel road was entertaining as we curved this way and that while smashing skeeters on the windows of the car that all had snuck in to hijack our rig. We won, but it wasn't pretty. I'll absolutely be back to Grand Park in late September as those same meadows are thick with ground hugging huckleberry plants to provide me a vivid fall color show to no end!John, Brianna and I decided to hike to Grand Park yesterday. I had always heard that it is a pretty spot and after viewing it from Mt Fremont Lookout a week ago, I decided it was time. The trail was in great shape with snow patches in places.The flowers were really just getting going. In the woods to the north of Grand Park we saw a few clumps of western coralroot, and patches of solid avalanche lillies. In the woods to the south of Grand Park the beargrass was in it's peak. Amongst the beargrass was quite a few tiger lillies, lupine and the occasional columbine.In Grand Park itself, we saw phlox, lupine, magenta paintbrush, some lousewort opening up, cinquefoil, alpine pussytoes, lots of sitka valerian, a few ""mop heads"" / western anemone / pasqueflowers, various daisy's /asters, american bistort, and partridge foot??? - I had thought they were a buckwheat or a parsley though.The view towards the white massive pile of rock and ice was wonderful. The climbers trail was very obvious. When are those hanging glaciers on the NW corner going to come crashing down????Other flowers we saw were; shooting stars, heather, jacob's ladder, alpine forget-me-knots, elephanthead, marsh marigolds and I'm sure I forgot some. I did not see any white rhododendron's in bloom. Darn.The mosquitos were out. John was afraid of getting low blood pressure due to blood loss. He did remind me of Pig Pen in the Charlie Brown cartoon - only replace the dirt with mosquitos. John was quite the popular guy with the mosquito crowd. We found that if we kept moving it was OK, thank goodness for the breezes.I think I saw a bluebird(s). I did not have my binocs with me. All of us want to go back. Great day. By the way, Lake Eleanor was snow free.Peter was making a volcano and Alice was making pork chops and applesauce, so I had to get out of the house.This is the trail ""they"" don't want you to know about. Drive the 73 Road ten miles from the turnoff from SH-410. A small parking area for four to five vehicles at a hairpin turn at Eleanor Creek (elev. 4520 according to the sign). Hike up the rough trail about a tenth mile before entering the Mt Rainier NP (without paying the $10 fee).There is no snow on the trail, but the melt must have been recent because of the abundance of avalanche lilies. There are many trees across the trail between the unofficial trailhead and Lake Eleanor. A trail crew must have been through recently as evinced by the patches of sawdust alongside the trail. There is one log across the trail at 5370 feet, just before entering Grand Park. Grand Park is very colourful - red paintbrushes, blue lupines, white phlox and yellow buttercups. Mosquitoes are a problem between the trailhead and Grand Park, especially at Lake Eleanor and the bog 0.6 miles beyond Lake Eleanor. A light constant breeze in Grand Park and the rather dry conditions kept mosquitoes from being pesky. Avalanche lily, foamflower, marsh marigold, lupine, paintbrush, bistort, phlox, buttercup and daisy were seen. There were unidentified butterflies at Grand Park. Skies were clear to broken clouds with moderate temperatures.Five of us hiked to Grand Park via forest road #73 east of Greenwater on a Tues., Aug 1. Glorious weather, fabulous views and a beautiful meadow that goes on and on. Flowers are still in full bloom--we identified 40 species. The trail is in mostly good shape with a few blowdowns, easily climbed over and a couple of muddy spots. One other car in the parking lot and 2 other folks on the trail--yippee, our own private National Park for the day. We estimated 12-13 miles round trip, hiking all the way through Grand Park to views of the White River canyon and the start of downhill to Berkley Park. Bugs' Yes, indeed--bring lots of your favorite chemical to ""off"" them. Truly a grand hike to a well deserved name spot!! 10 stars!!!!Headed up on FS Road 73 on a beautiful Saturday morning not knowing if we could make it all the way to the trailhead before hitting snow. The road turned out to be snow free though there was lots of it still covering the trail. About a mile before reaching Grand Park we met a couple of hikers that were headed back having gotten lost. After a few minutes we convinced them to go back with us since it was such a perfect day to view the mountain. When we reached Grand Park there was still 3-4 feet of snow but it was melting fast. Most of the snow should be gone by the 4th of July. We went to about the half way point of the park and laid out our Thermarest to enjoy the sun and watch the climbers through our binoculars descending the Sherman route. Headed back by way of the creek and over to Lake Eleanor before reaching the car late in the afternoon. What a great way to spend a Saturday!GRAND PARK via LAKE ELEANORDrive hiway 410 through Greenwater and turn right onto F.S. road 73. Follow this road a little more than 10 miles to the trailhead. This is a good gravel road, the last 4 miles are very steep and narrow, but have dramatic views of the Huckleberry and Eleanor creek valleys. There is a small parking area at the trailhead which is at the crossing of Eleanor creek (there is a sign ""Eleanor Cr Elev. 4550'""). No outhouse or bulletin board or any other trailhead facilities. The road here is within 1/4 mile of the park boundary. Trail starts on the south side of the road and heads south. We (Bob, Ricard, Elaine, & Amie) all piled out of the car eager to start up, and were assaulted by black flies until we all applied our Bug dope. Clear sunny weather, temp. about 65, light breeze from the northwest. Starting up the trail in dense forest one climbs over 15 or more major logs and steps over another 30 or so minor ones before reaching Lake Eleanor (5000 ft. Elev) in 1 mile. A nice little lake with some fish and 3 campsites. We met a family with a cute 2 1/2 year old baby camping here. The official trail starts here and is well maintained with no downed timber. We had a high insect count on this first stretch. Leaving the lake the trail climbs slightly to the southeast through the forest and then drops 200 ft in the next 1/2 mile to the first astounding view at a large meadow (about 1/4 mile accross at 4850 ft.). Rainier rises majestically over the forest beyond as you come into the meadow. We crossed the meadow back into the open forest and crossed a little stream. From here the trail started up and climbed steeply for about 3/4 mile, then a few little clearings and less gradient signal nearness to Grand park. After about 1/4 mile more we came out into the park and in another 1/4 mile we rounded a grove of Alpine fir and met the north face of Rainier (up close it seemed but it was actually about 4 miles away). Now we walked on the level for another mile thru the stupendous meadow land of Grand park with Rainier in view all the way and getting bigger. A good breeze up here blew the stinging insects away and left the butterflys and bees alone to play in the flowers. We stopped at the junction with the northern loop trail (5600 ft. Elev.) and found a shady grove of fir for our lunch site. Temp. now up over 70 and over 80 in the sun. To the southeast of us Mt. Fremont was a solid dark green with the lookout building just visible on top. Several other groups were coming or going or relaxing but a couple dozen people in such a giant open park space made almost no human impact. We heard only the wind and the bees. After about an hour of lunching and resting we reluctantly packed up for out trip back out. On the way down a cold hat-full of water over the head was really refreshing, at the little stream crossing and again at the lake. We arrived back at the car at 4 after a 5 2/3 hour trip. About 8 miles and 1500 ft. total Elev gain. About the flowers, the park was about 3 weeks past peak bloom and had much more green than color. Still a lot of lupine and paintbrush in flowering but probably only 10-20 % of what it was earlier. There was better bloom on the forest edges and in the woods clearings. Saw a beautiful Beargrass in full bloom ! almost 2 months late. No lilies. Lots of Canadian Dogwood, Queens Cup, and Coral Root flowering in the forest.  Robert Michelson 8-28-98This was a beautiful hike. There are still a few snow patches between Sunrise and Berkeley Park, a couple of which are on moderately steep slopes, but the path across the snow is well trampled & solid and we did not feel the need for ice axes. Flowers in Berkeley Park are beautiful! There are still some unopened lupines so I figure the flowers will hang on a little longer still. Lots of mosquitos between Berkeley Camp & Grand Park--so we were glad we had brought long sleeved shirts and insect repellent. Lots of mud & water on the trail--my friend was wishing he had worn boots that covered his ankles! We heard from a backpacker that thunderstorms had been coming in every day in the mid afternoon, but we were lucky enough to escape this and get a full day of hiking with no rain.Crossed Grand Park from Lake Eleanor and returned same route. The use trail into Lake Eleanor has only snow patches, but is soggy and muddy in places. Lake Eleanor itself is snowfree. The trail from Lake Eleanor to Grand Park is largely snow-covered, but the route is easy to follow if attention is paid, because the snow in the forest is shallow, so that cut logs are visible. The bridge crossing the outlet stream from Grand Park is snowfree, but the trail is snow-covered in the valley bottom of this little stream. The marsh that the trail crosses shortly after leaving Lake Eleanor is very soggy, and it may be easier and more environmentally sensitive to walk around it along the margin of the adjoining open spruce forest. Most of Grand Park is snow-free, but it's also sodden. A week of warm sun ought to bring this hike into excellent condition.Note: guidebooks don't describe the access to Lake Eleanor. To get to the trailhead, drive Highway 410 to the first road after the viewpoint, about milepost 47 or so, on the right (approximately five miles beyond downtown Grreenwater). Turn right on this road, F.S. road 73, and follow it across the White River and on past the Huckleberry Creek Trailhead. At about 6.3 miles from 410 the road goes right, through a gate, and begins a steady climb. At about 10.5 miles from 410 there is a sign that once read, before some civil libertarians used it to exercise their Second Amendment (use it or lose it) rights, ""Eleanor Creek/Elevation 4520""). There is a carpark on the downstream (right) side of the road; the use trail to Lake Eleanor is unmarked but perfectly obvious on the upstream side of the road. A very short distance from the road, at the park boundary, is a National Park Service sign. Road 73 is in good condition and is not particularly steep, although the drop-offs along the upper four miles are attention-getting. Further note: anyone intending to use this informal entrance to Mount Rainier N. P. for an overnight trip needs to plan ahead. The Park Service requires a permit for any overnight use, and there is no point where permits are issued en route to the trailhead. During the summer season the ""caboose"" information center/ranger station at Wilkeson is probably the least out-of-the-way place to pick up a backcounty permit.Further note: an advantage to entering the national park this way is that it promotes a profound appreciation of the national park idea, as the contrast between Forest Service multiple use land and the Park's preserved wilderness is stark.A long hike, 2 3/4 hours to the park and 3 1/2 hours back.  The trail is clear and an easy walk in.  Dozens of marmouts along the trail.  I met some campers who said it had rained and there was frost on the ground last night.  Grand Park is unlike anywhere else on Rainier. It reminded me of the opening credits of ""Bonanza"".  A long alpine meadow with old growth fir.  Well worth the visit.Did the hike from the FS #73 rd. approach, via Lk. Eleanor.  Started at Eleanor Crk. trailhead on a very warm day at 8:30am, with the goal being the far end of Grand Park, before the trail drops down toward Berkeley Park. LOTS of skeeters all the way, resorted to donning a bug jacket for the balance of the day (those damn pests love me)--needless to say, I sweated under that thing like a pig--but a happy, unbitten one. The trail is in great shape, with a few fallen logs obstructing the way before you reach Lk. Eleanor.  Wildflowers are really out, beginning with avalanche lilies, then lupines, daisies, paintbrush, tiger lilies, beargrass, and many more I can't name! I was stopping a lot to photograph the scenery (oh by the way The Mountain is supremely dominant above the park), Grand Park has a surreal look to it, reminding me of the landscape outside of the city of Oz. Saw hardly anyone until two rangers came by late in the morning.  Despite being a summer weekend, saw no more than a dozen folks all day.  This is a hike everyone should experience at least once! Just be prepared for bugs!Having not gotten enough fog and cold on Friday, we set out Saturday to hike to Grand Park via the ""back way"" through Eleanor Lake.  The TH is found at a big bend in  FS road 73 where it crosses Eleanor Creek.  The trail is on the left (south) side of the road and is unmarked.  We left the car at about 8:30 am and started slogging through mud immediately.  This would be a constant theme for the day.  There is a trail sign about 100 yds up the trail informing all would-be hikers that this trail enters Mt. Rainier NP and permits are required for camping.  The first mile or so to Lake Eleanor was decent but muddy except for one giant hiker-eating mud hole which you just have to suck it up and cross.  Squish, slurp, glup!  Fun, fun.  Lake Eleanor itself is quite pretty, tucked in under some cliffs and surrounded by forest.  There is a NP camp there, but all I could see was the one group site - it looked clear.  From the lake we continued, first down, then across a creek, then back up again.  Right across the  creek the trail disappears under snow - just stay to the right close to the creek and you'll find it again.  At this point the sun started to threaten to come out, but we didn't let that deter us.  The trail climbs a few hundred feet and then hits mostly continuous snow at the 5200' level or so.  It is easy to follow the snow the rest of the way, none of it requiring any kind of special equipment (except boots).  We reached the meadows that encompass Grand Park about 10:40, and sort of decided ""here we are"" from the relative lack of trees.  We could not see the Mountain because of the thick fog swirling about, but the meadows were lovely, if not a bit wet and mushy. Lots of water along the trail at Grand Park itself, though it dries out after the trail climbs a little bench.  No flowers yet, and no bugs either.  In fact, no people - it was one of the loneliest places I've been in MRNP.  Saw one deer and loads of deer, elk and bobcat tracks.  We returned to the car once again just in time to beat out the sunshine.  I can't emphasize how muddy and wet this trail was - my boots and legs were filthy.  But the solitude and quiet were worth it.  MarmotGrand Park 6/21/98  Road access from the North bare and dry . Under  threatening skies hiked up past Lake Eleanor to   1st   meadows  some small patches of snow  here and there  and avelanche lilys just starting the show . We found the usual snow in the last ravine up ,On top about 75% of the area there  was about 1.5 to 2' of snow . Fine veiws of the Mt,Rainer  . The sky above us was split ,Dark  and thunder to the east and Sunny to the West Quite a show.Went to the Pasayten Wilderness to see the larch trees from Monday the Oct 5th through the 9th. The larch were past prime on the upper slopes, but better lower down or in sheltered basins. Although, after five days including some wind and rain they had rapidly declined by the time our trip was ending.  In five days we only saw three other people on the trail, all of whom we saw the first two days. The Pasayten is a beautiful place for those who haven't been and the solitude was magnificent. Our plan was to hike to Johnny Lakes and climb several peaks along the way.  The road to Harts Pass is in good shape all things considering. The road is not for the faint of heart although could be traveled by most vehicles (in my opinion). The trailhead is at Slate Pass at the last hairpin turn. The Middle Fork Pasayten trail is in good shape and travel is very easy as the valley is quite gradual. The junction with the Freds Lake Trail (#474) is signed and the trail is also in great shape. After Freds Lake the trail becomes thin, but is easy to follow as it switchbacks up to Lake Doris.  Dropping into the Eureka Creek valley from Lake Doris is on a trail that hasn't been maintained for a very long time. Despite the lack of maintenance the trail is in good shape. The tread is thin, there are downed trees to contend with, and the brush (mostly small trees or grass) obscure the trail in a few places. Overall, the trail is easy to follow or marked with cairns when the tread becomes sparse. Following cairns through the upper valley eventually leads to the tread leading up and over Shellrock Pass which is in excellent shape. East of Shellrock Pass the trail is well constructed in the rocks before becoming rather sparse in the larch basin lower down. After crossing a small stream coming from the basin beneath Mount Lago the tread is in good shape as it descends to the junction with Butte Pass. Other than a few downed trees, the switchbacks up to the pass are in fine condition. We left the trail at Butte Pass in favor of Johnny Lakes and Lost Peak. Overall, an excellent trip with acceptable weather, albeit not great. Many options for camping and water is available throughout.  If you're up for the challenge, this rugged area is worth spending some time in.A family backpackAfter a late lunch of delicious sandwiches from the Mazama store, we drove the hairy road to Slate Pass and the Buckskin Ridge trailhead ay 6900'. After  about a mile  we took the cutoff trail down 2000' to the Pasayten River trail (note: the cutoff trail is not on the Green Trails maps). The latter is flat and exceedingly horsy, otherwise it would be a nice forest trail. At 6.5 miles we found a good campsite by the river. The next day we got a late start and hiked 6 miles past Fred Lake up 2000' to lovely Lake Doris, elevation 6900', and hurried to set up camp and eat as it appears rain was imminent. That night we were surprised by a snowstorm! It snowed only very lightly, but  was very windy, foggy and cold in the morning. We waited for the weather to clear and climbed Mt Osceola in the afternoon. On Saturday we had a hike/scramble up Mt Lago, and 2 of us elected to add Mt Carru, making a very long day of 12 miles and 5600' vertical feet.   Lago is a very steep loose pile of scree and talus. Carru is an interesting climb on somewhat more solid rock, looks very exposed but is reasonable. Osceola is fairly easy, provided you find a route around the cliffs near the bottom. All the summits have spectacular views, including an unusual view of the high peaks of the North Cascades from the east.No biting bugs (saw 1 mosquito). Freezing nights. Ripe berries in a few of the meadows.The trail from Lake Doris to Shellrock Pass seems to be disappearing into a pile of blowdowns, but somehow horses have made it through recently.This hike was steep and challenging but due to it's variety of topography, we didn't realize how far we had walked and we found ourselves above the lake pretty quickly.  It was cloudy for most of the hike, but the views were still quite dramatic.  The lake was a nice place to have lunch. Our old dogs did very well on the hike.Hiked to Soda Peaks Lake via Trapper Creek Trailhead. Confirmed with USFS employee that the old trail from Government Mineral Springs to the beginning of Soda Peaks trail has been decommissioned. The trail was in good condition the entire way; the lower portion had very recently been cleared of brush and blowdown. The hike is just as steep as advertised, a similar experience to hiking Dog Mountain. The lake is very pretty, but we didn't stay long as the wind was very chilly at the higher elevations. Total hike time was just over 4 hours, but we were hiking fairly fast.After failing to make it all the way to the lake last time, I decided to try again today.  I took the longer route from the Trapper Creek trail.   As other trip reports have mentioned, it is pretty steep once you get on the Soda Peaks trail, with the first few switchbacks being the worst.  Once you get up onto the ridge it's not as steep, though it does still keep going up.  On the bright side, it's straight down when you're on your way back. There are a few downed trees and some areas are overgrown and/or eroded.  A couple of the trees are pretty big, but it's possible to go around, climb over, or crawl under all of them.  All of the trees but one are on the Soda Peaks trail.  There's now one down on the Trapper Creek trail, between where 132 branches off and the Soda Peaks trail begins.  You can get around it, but it's definitely blocking the trail.  As far as the overgrown areas, they weren't horrible, but I did regret wearing a tank top. The lake is beautiful.  I ate my lunch by it and then sat there relaxing for about an hour.  I saw a number of fish and a little tiny crawdad.  It's a very nice place, and a good spot to rest after all those switchbacks. The bugs weren't too terrible on the trail, but they did get a bit annoying down by the lake.  I got a couple mosquito bites, but I'm glad I was wearing bug spray or I probably would've gotten more. All in all, this was a lovely hike.  It took me about 2.5 hours to get to the lake and maybe 1.5 hours to get back to the Trapper Creek trail head.First off, I'd seen some conflicting information about the western trail head off FR 54.  The Forest Service website says that it's open, but I'd seen some reports that that portion of the trail had been decommissioned. I drove to this trail head first and it appears to be open.  There were other cars parked there and no signs saying it was closed as far as I could tell.  I wanted a longer hike, though, so I turned around and drove back to the Trapper Creek trail head. FR 54 is suitable for all vehicles, but keep an eye on the road as there are some branches and rocks on the road.  They're all avoidable but they can catch you by surprise if you're not paying attention.  The roads up to the Trapper Creek trail head are in great shape. The Trapper Creek trail is in good shape from the trail head to the junction with the Soda Peaks Lake trail.  The water in the creek is low enough that the creek crossing isn't a problem.  The Soda Peaks Lake trail isn't too bad either, but there are a number of eroded areas and downed trees.  Most of the trees are small and can be stepped over, but some are large enough that they're blocking the trail and you have to climb over or crawl under them. Unfortunately, I started getting a migraine about 3/4 of the way to the lake and had to turn around, so I can't say what condition the trail is the rest of the way to the lake.  I'm sure it was beautiful though, what with the cool, lightly rainy weather. The Trapper Creek Wilderness is lovely to hike through.  I hope to come back some time soon and hike through to Soda Peaks Lake.Initially, I was apprehensive about driving out to Soda Peaks for fear of clearance issues due to the altitude and time of year. In short, despite excessive blowdown and some snowdrifts to carefully traverse, the hike was pretty enjoyable and a great option for the more nimble and experienced hiker. This is probably an optimistic review given the fair abundance of biting flies and ants; considerable debris, and understandably frigid lake water (We set out with the intention of swimming). Neither my partner or I are in great shape so the climb and descent, in both directions, were physically demanding to say the least. That said, it's always an exceptional option when seeking panoramic views of snow-capped Adams, Goat Rocks, Mount St. Helens, and Rainier as well the promise of a refreshing dip in a high wilderness lake on a sweltering day.Memorial Day weekend backpacked in Trapper Creek Wilderness. An amazing little wilderness with ample campsites and great well-maintained trails.  Our trip consisted of: Friday night drive from Seattle to Beaver Campground (past Carson, WA and the great Backwoods Brewing co. on Wind River road). We arrived super late and as per usual on Mem. Day weekend, it was pretty slammed. We got super lucky with the last site at Beaver which is just fine car camping with plenty of sites, bathrooms, usual amenities. Recommend doing this hike from the southern entrance on Wind River Rd versus the northern entrance. There is a paved road all the way to TH! Saturday morning-super short drive to the Observation Peak TH. You just drive up Wind River Rd near Govt Mineral Springs campground and you're right there. We parked and packed up for 2 nights overnight. The debate was which trail to take up, Observation Peak trail #132 or Trapper Creek trail #192. Craig Romano recommends going up Trapper Creek and descending on 132 after reaching the peak. I very much disagree! You should ascend on 132 to the peak and descend on 192. The switchbacks on 192 are gnarly and seriously would be tough to ascend as compared to 132.  So we started going up 132 (it is VERY well-marked and splits off from the the TH and trapper creek. Just take a guide book with you for details on distance. Basically, you follow the signs up to Observation Peak. We had no problems with weather, bugs, trail conditions etc. It was really pretty smooth sailing and extra special thanks to the amazing signage in the Wilderness. It is really visible and well-marked.  We ascended starting at 12 PM and probably made it to the junction the Peak at 5 pm. We walked on to Berry Camp and decided to make camp near there. At Berry Camp (which is really the junction of several trails, including Big Hollow Trail and 132) there is also another campsite in the woods with a primitive firepit. Since it was a little more off the main trails, we actually set up there and not the 'official' Berry camp site. Good thing, because we had more folks come in that night and they set up at Berry. The hike from Berry Camp to the actual Peak is an off-shoot trail, so we actually ditched our backpacks and just scooted up to the Peak and then back down. Amazing views, you can really see Hood, Adams, MSH, Rainier. It is stunning! There is also a clear campsite at the peak, which provided you have good weather and no wind, would be a great place to camp. Difficult to stake a tent though.  Camped in Berry vicinity that night, which also has a stream just a short distance down the Big Hollow trail, so water sources were adequate. KEEP IN MIND THIS WILL NOT BE THE CASE IN JULY/AUGUST. I could easily see it getting very dry and not having the snow-melt we had.  Next day descended down the Trapper Creek trail #192 with a lot of switchbacks and some down logs but nothing to bad. About 6ish miles descending but ample signs the whole way. We got down to the junction of Soda Peaks Lake, Trapper Creek, and 132, and decided to try to head up Soda Peaks Lake Trail #133. Not a good idea at 5pm. It is truly Granite Mtn steep, and 3.1 miles of straight elevation. I would make sure you do this as a full day and leave ample time for the elevation, down trees, etc. So we attempted to head up the trail but it got too late so we headed back down and ended up camping close to the initial ascent of 133, right on the trail. There is actually a great campsite near the creek that is super nice and makes for an easy walk out to the TH the next day.  Monday we headed back out to TH, only about 1.5 miles or so. Signage on 133 to 132 to TH was easy to navigate. Lots of folks were heading in and out on the trail so we exchanged beta. Monday was spent exploring the Gorge: Bridge of the Gods, walk across as a pedestrian! Bonneville Hot Springs, worth the $$, downtown Skamania, nice spot for lunch, river walk, etc. Then the inevitable slog back to I-5 and either to Portland or Seattle. We headed to Seattle and got lucky with the drive-about 4ish hours.  This is a great loop to do for 1 night, or extend it out for two. Highly recommended. Romano's book on the region is a great resource as well.The Soda Peaks Lake Trailhead has been closed due to erosion but you can take Trapper Creek Trail for 1.5miles to meet up with Soda Peaks Lake trail. The Trapper Creek Trailhead is just one turn on the road before the original Soda Peaks Lake Trailhead.We set out for this trip via the western route through Chelatchie Prairie. I would start by saying this is not a road traveled well by low clearance vehicles! We had our WRX and it was SLOOOW going. Lots of potholes, large rocks in the middle of the road, felled (mostly cleared) trees, etc. This is definitely a forest road, so expect elevation changes everywhere throughout the road even on pavement. Once you turn onto Healy Road in about 2 miles you'll hit FR54. You will stay on this road for 21.5 miles, changing from asphalt to gravel several times. You'll also pass over 5 single lane bridges, although traffic wasn't heavy and this never caused a hold up. Once you feel like you're just about lost and you'll never hit civilization again (was a big plus for us) you'll come to the trailhead at a 4-way intersection. Keep straight and you'll find a little road that has enough parking for 4-6 vehicles. We never saw signs for FR5407 like noted in the directions, but you'd have a hard time missing the trailhead/permit sign. This trip took us a little over an hour once we hit chelatchie store. Although the hike summary mentions the Eastern Route being the most difficult, do not make the assumption the western route is easy! The climb is steep but not long, thankfully, and is absolutely gorgeous the whole time! Once you hit the crest the views are amazing of Mt. Adams- this is a trip to bring your camera! The only blunder we made on the whole trail was not recognizing the 'trail marker' or the big stacks of rocks noting your descent down the mountain. Once you see these rock stacks, take a hard left to head down the trail. We, however, went straight and had a grand time sliding down the face of the hill to eventually reconnect with the trail.  be prepared for steep inclines/declines all along this trail. The way up from the trailhead is the worst of it, so at least you'll get that out of the way off the bat.  The lake was mostly frozen when we got there. We took two large dogs with us, and they did just fine. We only encountered 4 other families our whole trip, not a crowded destination, at least in February. The hike itself took about 2.5 hours with a brief stop at the lake for pictures and a snack.This hike was tough. Like really tough. First of all we found that the trailhead listed above was closed due to erosion (see sign below) so we ended up having to tack on an additional 3 miles round trip to this already difficult hike. But the intro 1.5 miles is flat, clear, and beautiful. You cross over a beautiful creek that you can splash in for a cool off if you need. After this the fun begins. I'm talking switchbacks for days. And constant incline. You'll hit a level section that make it seem like you've arrived. Do not be fooled! There is more incline to come. Another flat section and up you go again! The report above says you can hear a waterfall before the lake - we heard no such thing. We were about to give up and decided to give it ten more minutes and we were glad we did! It's a gorgeous lake. The bugs were a little obnoxious, so pack some bug spray. None of the biting kind but the buzz in your ear kind. Also, you will need lots of water! We did not pack enough and ended up getting desperate and drinking some of the lake water which, so far so good, but I wouldn't recommend unless you have a filter. It was very clean water and warm enough to swim in. The whole trip was about 5 1/2 hours. Highly recommended. Just know what you're getting yourself into.Perhaps my GPS was all wrong (or I was in the wrong place), but this hike was a little different than advertised - and not in a bad way. First, a tip on getting there. According to my car's odometer, the trailhead is about 19 miles after you enter the National Forest on FR 54 from the West (Chelatchie). The instructions didn't specify (only to keep following 54 as it winds all over the place until you reach the junction of FR 5407). The road is definitely bumpy, but passable by most cars. You'll know you've reached FR 5407 when you hit the first patch of pavement after many miles of gravel. When you reach FR 5407, the trail head is across the road to the left. There's a gate (hopefully open) and a sign with info about the hike and a wilderness permit box. My GPS had much different readings on both the elevation change and overall hike length. Not 2, but 4.5 miles roundtrip (from trailhead to lake and back). Elevation-wise, the trail starts at about 3650 ft and rises to around 4400 ft, where you have a great view of Mt Hood and the lake below. To access the lake itself, you have to hike about another mile or so back down to around 3900 ft. So, there are some pretty steep climbs on both the way in and back - but as others have mentioned, there's good footing throughout the trail and it's strenuous, but doable. Overall, a great hike, just longer than advertised.Trail closed for bridge work.  It probably won't be closed for too long - the sign wasn't even laminated.  You might want to check with a ranger before you go.  Trapper Creek is right next to this, and would make a good backup plan.I went out to Soda Peaks Lake last month and had to turn around due to snow so decided to give it another shot.  No snow this time and I was able to hike all the way down to the lake.  The climb up to the ridge is definitely  steep, although as far as trail conditions go, its not too bad. Not too rutted out and there is good footing.  Just take it slow and you'll get there!  The view from the ridge is worth it and the switchbacks down to the lake are easy.   The berries weren't ready quite yet but it looks as if there will be a lot to munch in a few weeks! This hike is great for an easy day hike but I would also love to go back and spend a night camping out by the lake.Lola and I ventured out the the Trapper Creek Wilderness to try out a small loop and scout out sites for future backpacking adventure. This time we traveled light - just the essentials. Milk, diapers, wipes, check. We parked at the Government Mineral Springs trail head and started up the bottom of Soda Peaks Lake. That section of trail has been completely overtaken by a stream and is difficult to follow. In parts you have to bush-wack through areas and scramble over fallen logs. The Forest Service may relocate it or abandon it and link up the bottom of Soda Peaks Lake via some other tie in. Rather than climbing up the steep ridge to Soda Peaks Lake (still has snow?)we turned right and followed the trail to Trapper Creek. The bridge crossing has been out for some time, but just up river there is a decent sized log that you can walk across with out getting your feet wet. It was tricky to scramble up and on to, and perhaps safer to just get your feet wet.  Once on the other side we picked up the trail again and joined the Trapper Creek Trail. At the jct we rested and sampled some of the local huckleberries - "eat the blue ones, not the green ones, Lola!"  Then we headed down the Trapper Creek Trail to the junction with the Observation Trail. Its actually a four way junction and if go SW you'll pop-out on a gravel route that people who lease cabins there use for access. (It is gated to the public). We crossed the gravel road and followed a short spur road between cabins 51 and 52 and there we forded Trapper Creek and ended up a stone's throw from the trail head and our car. A short, but adventurous hike, just enough before nap time.I took the Western approach for this hike.  The drive in on Forest Service Road 54 was on a single paved road, and once you've gone about 11 miles you'll come to a 3 way fork.  Keep left, the trail head is on your right.  However, when I came out, there will still snow on the road, so I had to park in a pull-out and walk in about a mile to the trail head.The trail is nice and the hike is steep, but the tread is maintained well enough that it makes for a pretty easy hike.  You'll have to climb for a while, but the views from the top are definitely worth it.  I wish I could report more on the hike down to the lake, however, I came across a lot of snow in the bowl on the way down, and lost the trail.  I had to turn around and head back, but it was still a nice day to be out, so I didn't mind.  I plan to come back and visit this trail again later in the season to get to the lake. This well-kept secret of a hike is not found in many guidebooks. As a result, expect a fair amount of solitude as well as some overgrown conditions. Furthermore, a bridge is washed out, so the current trail may be different than prior versions found on older maps or guidebooks. A small amount of routefinding or at least bypassing obstacles is necessary.The trail starts out on the other side of the gate, walking along a dirt road. You'll pass about 6 cabin rental sites, and then turn and enter wilderness on your right. Shortly after, the trail hits a rocky streambed, which you'll follow for a few hundred yards; you'll have to clamber up one 2-3 foot rockfall section, or bypass off-trail just to the left.Continue onward and you'll soon run smack into substantial treefall. Buried among these giants are the remnants of what may have once been an old bridge across the river. Do not go that way; it is brushy and marshy and very unstable. Instead look just to your left and you'll see a faint, overgrown way trail - that's your ticket. It parallels immediately along Trapper Creek and then you quickly run out of real estate: the trail just falls off into the creek on your right. Look carefully and you'll see that you can cross over the creek here with a network of roots and trees; alternatively you can bypass around to the left. This is easier than it sounds.Once around this obstacle, the trail becomes clearer  but not easier. Miles 2 and 3 are basically straight up at 1000 ft per mile. On a warm sunny day the east-facing slope is pretty hot and sunny early but gets more shade as the day goes on.The Lake is subalpine, still with snow on its western shores in late June. It is a lovely little lake, very quiet, with fish and clear water and several nice campsites around the shores.There were surprisingly few/no bugs on the trail today, lucky for me because I left my bug spray at home.There is no snow on the trail.I didn't see a single other hiker today. I suspect the treefall, the washed out bridge(s), and the steepness of the trail combine to keep some people away.There was a little beargrass, and a few avalance lilies, but not many other flowers right now.Lovely medium-size lake with great views on the way in. We took the western approach, and the trailhead was difficult to find. From Carson WA, it's 30+ minutes on a back road, which briefly turns unpaved and then becomes paved again. Drive until there is a 3-way fork in the road. The turn off for the hike is on the right and the actual trailhead is quite hidden in the bushes on the right. This is the shorter route in, and the hike in was longer than 2 miles advertised with all the switchbacks. It was indeed quite steep, but was enjoyable and definitely the views were great. You'll see Mt Adams quite clearly on the left, and Rainer is somewhat visible but often obscured by trees. At the high point, as you are walking along the ridge, glimpses of Hood may be seen on the right. There seem to be only 6 campsites here. 3 obvious ones to the left as you reach the lake, two of which are big enough for a larger tent or for 2-3 small tents. The other 3 sites are along the right side of the lake, and the trail to get there is not obvious at all. It's part trail, part bushwhacking, but if you stick close to the lake, you'll find the other 3 spots. So go mid-week, or arrive early. Skeeters were present but not terrible (Labor Day). There were flies and apparently some of them bite. There were also ticks. We used the natural bug spray (lemon eucalyptus) and it worked fine for keeping all the bugs off. There were lots of huckleberry bushes, and some of them had berries, if you looked off the trail. The lake has crawdads in the shallow waters. The water was clear and lovely, not as cold as you would expect, but still chilly. September is an excellent time of the year for swimming. We saw about 6 happy dogs. 2 nearby parties had children who were crying/whining, which was quite audible across the lake and obviously they couldn't just put the kid in the car. Plus, this is a very difficult hike in for kids, though there were several teens who seemed to enjoy it. Soda Peaks Lake via Trail #133. Approached from Government Mineral Springs. Nice primitive trail recently maintained. Awesome old growth Doug fir. Woodpeckers. Views of Mt. Hood, St. Helen's and Adams near lake.  Still quite a few flowers. Lake is tranquil, water not too cold, fish visible.  Met 2 hikers at lake who said the western approach from USFS Road 54 is buggy now.  Not so from eastern approach.  All maps/guides give eastern approach as 3 miles.  I think more like 5 w/ switchbacks.  Though a continuous climb, its moderate, just seems longer than 3 miles.  Wife & I are recovering from back and knee issues, so we took it slow.  Returned the same way. Took us about 7 1/2 hours including the hour rest at the lake. Would definitely do it again.  Did Observation Point a week before this.  Though both hikes were similar, the destination experiences are very different.  Three of us decided to tackle the eastern approach to Soda Peak Lake, completely ignoring reports that it was "extremely difficult." Turns out, it was.The other two got to the trailhead several hours before me. I parked at Govt Mineral Sprngs around 3 p.m. and set out optimistically on the main Trapper Creek trail. I took the left fork at #133 and strolled to the bridge, which was out. I worked my way around it, sliding down a felled tree to cross the stream in the dry. Another half mile or so of easy hiking brought me and my backpack to the beginning of the switchbacks.This was truly one of the most painful uphills I have ever done in 20 years of mountain hiking. Hefting the backpack didn't help. It's one of those trails where you'd swear the lake must be just up ahead, only to come round the bend and face yet another series of diabolical switchbacks. The only reason I kept going was because I didn't want to have to make camp alone in the dark.I'll spare you the details, but understand that Dante could have incorporated this trail into one of his levels of hell. When I finally heard a stream cascading down the side of the mountain, I knew there was in fact a lake up there somewhere. Another 10 minutes of struggle, and I was at the lake. It is so fantastic that the climb was ALMOST worth it. A picture postcard of a lake, rimmed by firs, trout jumping energetically everywhere, large, comfortable campsites... really a fine destination. But what a price to pay.The way down is tough on an entire other set of muscles, but at least it's all downhill. I've read that the western approach is easier, and I'm going to find out. The lake is so peaceful I want to return. But I'll never take that eastern approach again!Still 6 foot drifts of snow. Had to park 1/2 mile down road 54 towards Chelatchie. Soda Lake was still mostly frozen over. Some very small open holes in it. However, it was at least 40 degrees out and sunny so the snow should melt pretty fast.This was a harder hike than we thought, it was so hot out and a bit of elevation gain.This is a great dayhike for those visiting the Mt. St. Helens area. Driving time is 1 hour from Amboy, Wa. or 1 1/2hrs. from Vancouver or Woodland.We started on the trail section that connects to Forest Rd. 54. The trail winds through the forest and then climbs up a series of steep switchbacks to a short ridge hike. Then you go down quickly to the lake. Expect to climb over, under, and around at least a half dozen big trees. It is about 2 1/2 miles in to the lake.It takes about an hour to an hour and a half to get in. The lake has several good campsites and if the sun is out there is a great view of Mt. Adams. The rainbow trout are jumping...we caught a beauty.The huckleberries are just starting to get sweet. The bugs were not too bad either (always an important detail)! Several weekend hikers/campers were headed in while we were headed out so go early for the best sites.The lake is totally snow and ice free, with a mere patch or two of snow peeking out from woods at the far end of the lake. We two decided this was going to be the coolest day of the next seven and that this trail being almost entirely in the shade of forest would suit us fine. Met no other hikers on trail, although a forest ranger on busman's holiday had just finished catching 8 or 9 small brook trout at the lake as we approached. After descending to the lake from the upper trailhead, he was continuing down to the lower one and a pick-up there by friends. Us old-timers had no desire to hike the flat, dull mile plus of the new lower Trapper Creek/Observation Peak trail. So we opted to continue on the road to Government Mineral Springs'water pump and the gate stopping all public traffic beyond. A quarter mile on the road leads to the semi-maintained wilderness trail along the creek to the junction with the spur leading right to Observation Peak and Trapper Creek Drainage. A left trending turn starts one then up switchbacks and west for several miles on a relatively soft tread of pine needles. No views. Several blowdowns to negotiate, but the FS appears to have sawed some really big dudes, allowing us to proceed comfortably to the last steep quarter mile traverse up to the lake. Start: 1,200' Lake: 3,777 Distance: 3.2 m Little elevation loss on way up.We went to Soda Peak Lake and back, 2.3 miles one way. We started and finished at the high end of the trail(west end on road 54). Spent one night at the lake. The trail has a number of trees blown down scattered along the length of the portion of the trail we traveled. The trail was snow covered in places on the decent to the lake. We lost the trail about 1/3 of the way down to the lake from the saddle. We then headed down the hill to the lake and were mostly on snow till arriving at the lake. (Hint: The trail goes around a corner at the end of a switchback and into snow and a large tree that has blown down. Do not cross over the tree. This is were the trail levels off, look higher on the hillside than you might expect for the trail. We figured all of this out on the return hike.) Judging from the direction other parties arrived at the lake, we were not the only ones who had difficulty following the trail. The campsites at the lake are clear of snow. In the more protected spots near the lake the snow is still 2.5 to 3 feet deep.It was a nice day for a hike I started early to beat the heat. 7:30 am started out at a brisk pace. The first 1.5 miles is relatively flat. The last two miles is pretty steep with many switchbacks. The trail is within the forest all the way up to the lake, and fairly well marked. There are a couple of temporary yellow directional signs at some of the intersections.  It took a little under 3 hours to get to the lake. Besides a couple that had spent the night  I was the only one there. It is a beautiful small lake with plenty of fish in it, too bad I didn't bring my fishing pole. Mostly small fish, but I did see one about 10 inches. The lake is stocked with rainbow trout. There were tons of crawfish in the shallows under the rocks. They would have made nice bait if I would have brought a rod.Starting directly from Morrison Creek Campground much of the forest is standing dead wood from a fire in September 2012.  It has an interesting beauty, with the lower bark generally burned off or peeled or peeling.  Proceeding up the well-graded trail you eventually escape to growing green forest, with occasional knockout views of Mt Adams (clouds permitting).  Once up to the Round-the-Mountain trail, it becomes generally level with the greatest challenges getting over several creek crossings.  These take some care but are manageable. Most of the flowering plants are now in seed stage, but in places a few are still flowering.  We continued to the branch descending to Lookingglass Lake, re-crossing several streams.  There are a couple of nice campsites here though you would have to deal with all the charcoal from the burned trees.  The lake is pretty shallow.  Just over a ridge is a creek dropping an estimated 60', making a nice waterfall. We saw deer and goat tracks in sandy parts of the trail, but not what made them.  Two deer ran across the road in front of us as we neared the trailhead.  The campground itself is closed to camping.  We had considered possibly doing another hike in the area but the road's roughness wasn't something we wanted to do again with our city sedan.This hike doesn't appear in any books or lists of hikes recommended by the ranger station, but I thought it was lovely. It leaves from the Morrison Creek campground and goes up gradually. It has mountain views and pretty meadows and streams. Trail was in great shape. And no bugs!"Day Hiking: South Cascades" overlooked Shorthorn Trail #16; lack of publicity means hikers can find lots of solitude on the southwest side of Mount Adams. We only encountered four other people during our hike.The Shorthorn Trail starts at Morrison Creek Campground on Road 8040 (from Trout Lake, follow the signs for South Climb). The trail climbs a ridge through lodgepole pines, crossing rocky washes and reaching a nice stream with wildflowers and clear water at 2.2 miles. Enroute, we flushed a group of blue grouse from the ground while another grouse clucked from deep within the foliage of an evergreen tree. There was evidence of a spectacular beargrass bloom earlier this summer but all gone to seed by the time of our hike.From here on, the views improve and the wildflowers increase as the trail crosses Crofton Creek in a steep gully and climbs abruptly to a junction with Round-the-Mountain Trail #9 at a saddle on Crofton Ridge at 2.9 miles and 1,400 feet elevation gain.Just beyond the junction, leave the trail to follow Crofton Ridge south about .25 mile to a high point (6,227 feet) and wide views of the south face of Mount Adams, Mount St. Helens to the west, and the Trout Lake Valley and Mount Hood to the south.We continued west on the Round-the-Mountain Trail but got diverted by wildflowers in a seep near a crossing of the headwaters of Salt Creek. We ran out of time to continue on to Madcat Meadow or Lookingglass Lake, both feasible destinations for a day hike.The south side of Mount Adams appears generally dry and rocky, so it was interesting to find white bog orchids and western false asphodel in bloom. Three species of monkeyflowers -- Lewis's, mountain, and seep-spring -- were growing side-by-side along the streams. In all, we identified about 35 species of flowers in bloom. On our return drive, we took a 1/4-mile side trip to visit the Trout Lake Big Tree -- a giant ponderosa pine that is 202 feet high and 84 inches in diameter.This trail begins at the back of the Morrison Creek Campground at 4,700 feet elevation. It starts as a pleasant hike gradually ascending a ridge through forest. At a sandy flat, the first glimpses of the south face of Mount Adams come into view. The trail crosses Shorthorn Creek, then Crofton Creek before it climbs steeply for about 1/4 mile to the junction with Round-the-Mountain Trail #9 on Crofton Ridge at 2.8 miles. We walked west on the Round-the-Mountain Trail about a dozen steps to the crest of the ridge, then went cross-country along Crofton Ridge about 1/4 mile south to a small summit at 6,227 feet elevation where we had 360 degree views for our lunch break. The south face of Mount Adams is very close with good views of the White Salmon and Avalanche glaciers. Plenty of sign that elk had been on the summit earlier in the morning. We didn't see any other hikers the entire day.There's something special about less popular trails.  The most recent trip report on this one was from 2012, and there were only 4 trip reports total.  Rather than driving directions, there was an ominous warning about road conditions.  Combine that with 4 pictures of a beautiful river and this becomes a very interesting trail. I was concerned about whether I'd even make it to the trail head, so I tacked this on to a trip to Red Top Lookout.  I kind of wish that I had made this the primary trip, because I left so much unexplored. The road has either been improved, or the warnings from 2011 were overstated.  I agree that you shouldn't drive this road in wet conditions - it probably turns to mud.  That said, the ruts weren't too bad and were easy to navigate around.  I did it in a Subaru Outback without any difficulty, but I'm pretty sure that I've tackled worse roads in my hatchback.  Nothing is signed, and the roads didn't quite match my map, but you pretty much follow the main road 3.7 miles past Indian Camp Campground.  The road will split, with the main road turning left.  Park here and walk down the road to your right.  It'll soon be blocked by two boulders, and then by a pair of small downed trees. The trail is brushy in places, and there are some blowdowns, but it's not bad considering the lack of trip reports.  I've seen more brush on popular trails like Ingalls Creek, and more blowdowns on Lake Serene. There is a large campsite a short distance in.  It looks like it gets regular use, as there were some fresh pieces of firewood there. The trail quickly ends at the river, with a level spot large enough for a picnic.  There is a social trail shortly before that.  I thought it might be a way to get around a washed out section of trail, but I don't think that's the case.  It seemed to go far too high.  The social trail was steep and loose - I'd recommend hiking poles if you want to explore it. If you look closely, you can see a hint of the trail beyond the picnic spot.  I found a big hiking stick and forded the river to check it out.  The river is less than knee deep if you pick a good route across.  If you pick a bad route, it could easily be mid-thigh.  The trail does continue on the other side of the river, and looks pretty good.  At least one blowdown, but the trail was well defined and could be followed.  Either the brush doesn't grow too fast here or people are hiking this and just not writing trip reports. I turned around after confirming that the trail existed beyond the first ford.  We started the trail late, and the mechanics of ferrying 3 kids across the river would have been time-consuming.  Instead, we lounged on a blanket enjoying solitude and snacks.The beginning of the Middle Fork trailhead requires a river crossing that is far too deep and fast to cross safely.  We drove down the dirt road toward the West Fork, looking for a trailhead.  But we never found one so we just parked near where the road ends (blocked by huge rocks/tree stumps) and hiked down a road that was closed to motor vehicles.  We found a great campsite right near the river after just a 5 minute walk.  It was mostly sunny, just a little light rain around dinner time.My previous trip report was lost due to my internet having a meltdown before I saved. So here is the summary since I don't feel like trying to rewrite the whole thing.Getting There: Road 113 from the Middle Fork Teanaway is trashed. Don't ever attempt this road if it has rained recently. Huge ruts and pot holes have formed in the soft soil, and not only would you damage the road further, but you would eventually get stuck. I wouldn't recommend trying this road in a standard passenger car. Subarus and higher clearance vehicles can make it if you pick the right line through the ruts and holes. Other access roads to this trailhead are closed due to bridges being out, and there is no sign marking the trailhead, so bring a map.  The trail begins on an old road bed (on your right) on a sharp left turn in the road, near an old campsite. But you can't get too lost because the road ends within the next 1/2 mile.The Trail: Smooth, mostly flat, and logged out. A few narrow sections that travel through rock slides. Steep drops to the river in a couple spots. Only one major climb, and a few brushy spots.The Scenery: Dry and hot this time of year, most of the wildflowers are done. However, it makes the multiple river crossings much easier. Gorgeous basalt cliffs above the river, with the river channelized below. This section of the river is very intriguing, an almost constant serious of pools, small waterfalls, and deep shadowy channels. Sandstone layers appear periodically among the basalts, carved into smooth flowing shapes in the river bottom. This a trail that requires you to pack a swimsuit, or be prepared to jump in fully clothed like I did! Some of the most beautiful and secluded swimming holes around. I chose one that appears to be a plune pool from an old waterfall. Twenty feet deep or more from what I could tell, turquoise water, and a big smooth rock to lounge on...or jump off of. This one is just downstream from Hex Creek, which we found on accident while wading around after lunch. Pack your water shoes, and do a little canyoneering, you'll see alot more that way!Mileage: Hiked just beyond Hex Creek, to the fourth creek crossing (third techinically, the first you just have to rock hop along the river because the trail goes straight through the it while skirting a basalt cliff.) Around 8 miles round trip.Traffic: Only one other car and two motorcycles, which I didn't see until I was leaving. Amazing considering it was Labor Day. Saw one other car parked at the Middle Fork Teanaway Trail, which is a good alternative if you don't want to brave the potholes and small canyons in the road further on.We found a trail with no snow. This trailhead is difficult to get to from road 113. You definitely need a four wheel drive vehicle, unless you want to park at the start of the road and hoof it about a mile. The trail was worth the work getting there. This trail is a beauty, it follows the west fork of the teanaway river. There are several places you have to cross the river to follow the trail. You will need tevas and shorts. The river is just above your knee at one crossing, it might get higher as more snow melts. Anyway, we hiked about 4 miles in and spent the night at a tranquil spot next to the river. The highest we went was 3,000 and saw no snow anywhere. We think you could take the trail all the way up to Jolly Mountain without a problem. We used Green Trail Map #208. There was rumor of lots of motorcross noise, we saw tracks but didn't see a one, except on our drive out. Lots of animal tracks, but no sightings, lots of flowers.Four of us actually left on Friday night and enjoyed the nightlife at The Brick in Roslyn before our trip. This also allowed us to get an early start on the road and beat most of the snowmobilers to the punch. The book entitled Snowshoe Routes Washington mentions a route up Indian Creek but the road was plowed far past that point and all the way to 29 pines campground. With this route out of the question we decided to just wing it and make our trip up as we went along. We followed road # 9737 toward Bevery Campground enjoying the sound of the creek and the lack of whining snowmobiles. About 1 mile or so before Bevery we decided to go off road to the east and head toward a ridge that we caught occasional glimpses of as low clouds blew through the valley. The initial climb off the road is fairly steep and then it becomes more gentle as quickly. We pondered setting up camp here but were drawn to the ridge. The route followed a small creek drainage through semi-thick forest, which was a little difficult for our lone backcountry skier. In 3/4 to a mile the route makes it's ascent to the ridge crest and becomes fairly steep again. In addition the forest opens up a little allowing for some views and some beautiful snow laden pines. After reaching the crest we climbed up the ridge another 100 meters and set up camp. With packs off we headed up the ridge to explore and play in the fresh powder. The sun graced us with it's presence while we played and allowed for some, hopefully, beautiful photography and stunning winter scenes. The night was cold but peaceful. The next morning after warming up with coco and oatmeal we went back up to play some more. This time, the three of us who had snowshoes, decided to summit a small peak that we saw the day before further up the ridge line. I love the feel of fluffy untracked snow as you pass under snowladen trees with the sun filtering through the thin layer of fog. After a few hours of playing we grabbed our packs and made our way back. I have done a lot of the hikes in this area in the summer time, but I was impressed at how beautiful an ordinary ridge can be in the winter snow.From the Fishtrap TH the trail goes through a gate and traverses uplands for 3 miles before dropping to the lake.  There were several ponds along the way and plenty of water everywhere.  A couple of times I had to make a short detour around soggy portions of the trail.  Farmer's Landing was a very pleasant spot with big trees and a nice view of the lake.  This 6.5 mile round trip was easy.  I saw one other couple on this sunny Sunday.I met another hiker to explore a long loop, proposed for trail development perhaps even later this summer.  The route connects old roadbed with game/cattle paths to form an approximately 7.5 mile route that includes both wide vistas and forest, along with a generous helping of basalt. The buttercups are in bloom, and the bitterroot & wild onions are emerging.  I plan to come back in another month or so to see how many more wildflowers are out as a result of the Watermelon Hill fire last fall.  Some of the smaller pines were killed as a result of the fire, but the trail is in good shape with only a few places blocked with small downfall (I could step over everything that was down).  Just wear black pants so that the charcoal doesn't show!This was my first real hike at Fishtrap; in the past, I've hiked a little around shore when I got bored on fishing trips.  I wanted to see this site of future trailwork, as well as check out how things were recovering after the July human-caused Watermelon Hill wildfire.  The fire burned a significant portion of the trail system, but the good news is that the trail is still easy to find, and the area is already showing signs of recovery.  There is new growth on both pines and shrubs, although there are also some very large pines that couldn't withstand the blaze.  There are little lupines already growing through the ashes, so I'm feeling hopeful that this area will be covered with wildflowers in the spring.  This is a great opportunity to see how wildfire, though destructive, can be a rehabilitative force on the landscape.  Wear clothes that you don't mind getting dirty, but definitely come check it out!*Road, trail and camp conditions as of 6/12/16* Wow. As a relatively new hiker with some previous backcountry experience in northern Minnesota, this was a fantastic overnight with much more views of Mt. Rainier than I was expecting below Gobblers Knob. I was a bit disappointed with the lack of information on Lake George on this site so I decided to prepare a pretty thorough trip report so you know what you're getting into. We took the Westside Road up to the Lake George trailhead where we base camped and hiked to Gobblers Knob in the morning from camp before hiking back to our car. The hike itself will give you a workout but isn't particularly difficult. Just prepare for the conditions you could encounter! You can do it! Permit is first come, first served, and free. We were on the doorstep of the Longmire ranger station when it opened and were able to get a permit with no problems. I could see competition for permits being an issue on really nice days especially given the current campsite closures at Lake George (see below).  Westside Road: The road is suitable for all vehicles up to where it is closed (which is why I selected what I did under Road Conditions). There are a few small potholes to watch for while driving but nothing too serious. Hiking the road itself presented no serious problems. There were a few trees down over the road but there was always a place to walk over or around them. There are two small creeks to cross over the road, one with a footlog and the other you can cross on rocks, just watch your step. Navigating the road is also not difficult, but carry a map of the area with you so you can see where you are. We were thrown off a bit by the old Tahoma Vista parking lot but the map set us straight. As you enter the parking area look to the left and you will see Westside Road (behind the rock wall) continuing higher up to the Lake George trailhead. It maybe took us about an hour to hike from where we parked to the Lake George Trailhead. Some might consider the road hike boring, but there are some good views and the road does ascend gradually which really does make a difference with a heavy overnight pack.  Round Pass: Finding the trail to Lake George from the Westside road was not difficult at all. You will see a battered sign that once said "Round Pass" (and has enough text left so you can see what it says) on the right hand side of the road. When you see that, look to your left. You will see a larger area probably used for parking at one time. At the time I hiked it there was a small rock pile in that area marking the trailhead. If you can't see the rock pile, walk along the woods on that side of the former parking area (left side of the road) and you should see the Forest Service Sign for the Lake George area just inside the tree line to confirm that you are on the correct trail. Trail to Lake George: This 0.9 mile climb is all uphill and leaves you huffing and puffing a bit, but it's worth it. There is at least one major tree trunk down over the trail that I crawled under with my pack. As of the time I'm writing this there's no serious obstacles on the trail and the trail itself is easy to follow. The bridges seem to be solid. There are some steep drop offs so be alert. Do look to the left as you're climbing and if it's clear there are a few places to enjoy a Mt. Rainier view from the trail. If it's cloudy, be rest assured that the mountain is there and that it is beautiful when the clouds lift! We walked back down this trail toward the Westside Road from our camp to watch the sunset on the mountain later in the evening. We took the trail out of camp back toward Westside Road aways and found a clearing where were able to find a spot to see it clearly. There are some much safer overlooks on the trail itself on the way back down to Westside Road.  Lake George Camp: Most of this camp is in decent shape. Know that as of 6/12/16 the Forest Service has closed three of the five campsites and the shelter because of hazardous trees. The only sites that are open as of 6/12/16 are #2 and #4 which are up the hill from the lake. Check with the Forest Service for the most updated information. Follow the signs to find the campsites everything is pretty well marked. The lake is beautiful. As other trip reports reflect one of the outhouses has been destroyed by an old growth fallen tree but the other is intact and in good condition. Everything in camp is well marked. The thing to know about the sites that are up on the hill above Lake George is that they are rather exposed despite the fact that they are completely in the woods. The cold air comes off Mt. Rainier and is blocked by nothing except the trees which can make for a rather chilly camp, as it did the night we were there. Hopefully the Forest Service will open the other sites and the shelter soon and possibly provide better camp sites with less exposure. On the positive side, I can tell you that sites 2 and 4 have peek-a-boo Mt. Rainier views, and others may as well. The ranger cabin is in good shape and a Park Service employee let me take a look inside, it was pretty cool. Lake George: This is a gorgeous lake. I almost felt like I was at Jenny Lake in the Grand Tetons. The water is pure and refreshing and a lovely blue-green color. We filtered anyway for safety and it does look like near shore there are algae-type growth in a few places. I was able to find a place to walk out on a log to get to cleaner water which I then filtered. There is a very rough trail around the south side of the lake, you'll be bushwhacking and crossing a few creeks but the trail is relatively easy to follow, just use the lake for navigational perspective (if the lake's on the right side you're going out, if it's on the left side you're going in, etc.). The views are amazing. My buddies brought inflatable trail boats so I paddled out on the lake in the evening (staying near to shore of course) and crossing the lake at the narrowest part to see a rarely-seen view of Mt. Rainier from the lake. We tried fishing but didn't get any bites; we guessed that the cold weather we had drove them deeper. We did find some good potential fishing spots off of the rough trail on the south side of the lake, look where the lake drops off quickly. Again, the views are amazing. This is what you worked so hard for. Enjoy it! Gobblers Knob: We made it to the top the morning of 6/12/16 for a beautiful view, a peek in the old lookout thanks to a park employee who had stayed the night up there, and wide open views of the surrounding mountains and Mt. St. Helens in the distance. The trail from Lake George to Gobblers Knob is 1.6 miles and is a relatively steep climb that is so worth it. Currently there are some intermittent snow patches to cross but we followed the well tramped out trail and didn't encounter anything too treacherous. At the first snowfield you have to cross, take the tramped trail to the right (this will probably be irrelevant in a few days, ha!). This overlook is surreal. I could see it being treacherous with more snow or in bad weather. It just wouldn't be worth it in bad conditions unless you like looking at fire lookouts with no views. Don't attempt unless the conditions are good.  Conditions: We hiked in on a day with a strong breeze and frequent showers. One of the park employees told me that it almost seemed to be a hypothermic night and I agree with him. Had we not set up a tarp and drank as much instant coffee as we did it would have been a pretty rough night. (Coffee is the eleventh essential, you know). Non-WTA Amateur Tip #1: Put the ground tarp on the inside of your tent, not the outside, and buy an oversize tarp so that you can go up the sides of the tent a bit. All of the ground water will go between the tarp and the tent floor and you'll stay dry (a little canoe camping trick). Again, the cold air comes off Mt. Rainier and washes up over the camps. It was at least 30 and maybe lower in the morning up at camp. Bring your long johns, wool shirts, gloves, and a stocking cap and have plenty of dry clothes. I would say regardless of the time of year bring warm clothing as a backup and a good sleeping bag (mine was rated 20 degrees). Bring a tarp also, that way you can cook and eat in relative comfort. We took two tarps and made an A-frame type setup that blocked the wind coming off the mountain which is immediately to the east of you and a LOT closer than you might think. I loved this trip despite the conditions and can only imagine how wonderful it could be in warmer weather. Just be aware that it can and often does get pretty cold and prepare accordingly.  A Final Note: I brought my 12 year old brother with me who is in good physical condition. He made it with trekking poles and a pack of decent weight. He really could have used some proper clothes, however (don't wear cotton up there!). We ended up sleeping in the same sleeping bag so I could keep him warm and out of hypothermic conditions. He had a great time.  If You Listen To Birds: Varied thrushes were whistling everywhere and constantly, it was actually pretty amazing. I also heard hermit thrushes, nuthatches, pine siskins, and a few others I couldn't identify.  Happy Hiking! I would do this again in a heartbeat. The pictures do not do the hike justice. It literally feels like the mountain is right there. And Lake George is amazing. You'll never be able to drive up to Paradise again. If you have any other questions, please ask away.There are some obsticles along the trail.   The first we encountered, after crossing the small creeks,  are part of the road is washed out aong the Tahoma Creek.   You can see on the left side where the road used to be.  Have to be careful going down near the creek, then climbing back up onto the road.  There were about three down trees heading up toward Round Pass.  Either had to go around or over, not difficult.   From the trailhead to Lake George, there is one down tree we had to go under.    No snow at Lake George, very beautiful today there.  We hiked around the campsites and noticed serveral signs saying "Site Closed, Hazard Tree"  the campsites were closed because of hazardous trees.  In fact looks like a tree fell on an outhouse and competely destroyed it.  So disappointed that our favorite campsite is closed, hopefully,  the hazardous trees will be taken out so the campsites will be open when we backpack there soon.  I remeber a couple years ago as we were camped at one of the sites, I was headed to the outhouse and as I walked down to it, I heard a loud thump, but did not see anything.  When I headed back to our campsite, there was a large tree over the trail I had just walked past.  So trees do fall there.  As we hiked along the lake toward the campsites, one of our favorite spots to go too are the waterfalls cascading down the rocks down to a small pond.  Very pretty and worth going to see.  That is where we get our water when we camp there.    Beautiful lake and a great hike as we were the only ones there.We parked along with maybe 8-10 other cars where Westside Road is closed and started our trek up the remaining 3.8 miles to Round Pass and the Lake George trailhead. The road starts out with some very pretty views for the first mile or so, running along Tahoma Creek and giving us some great views of both Rainier and numerous waterfalls cascading down from higher elevations along the cliffs. Most of the road is in the sun during the day so definitely plan on sunscreen or a hat. There is a spot where the road has been washed away perhaps .7-8 miles in which does require a bit of navigating. On the way up, we had no trouble hopping along a few rocks in the water to pass by but by the time we returned, the water had risen and we had to forge through the forest by the road to get around. Still nothing all too challenging. After the road leaves the creek it follows a series of wide switchbacks. About halfway to Round Pass, you'll come to the old Tahoma Vista. Nice place to stop for a snack and water. When you arrive at Round Pass, the trailhead you FIRST see to the left is the one to the lake. If you continue along Westside Road, you'll see the Marine Memorial with a gorgeous backdrop of the summit, as well as the other trailhead to South Puyallup etc. Do NOT keep following the road past the memorial if you're going to the lake, as you'll only be following the road for miles more. The actual trailhead to the lake is in good shape, pretty steep at parts, but shady, with some fabulous summit views peeking out here and there. The lake is very beautiful. We only saw 3 other parties there but none that stuck around. There is a wilderness toilet if you follow the trail to the left as soon as you come to the lake. There used to be two small outhouses but a tree fell directly through the second - seems not too long ago. We put our feet in the water, took some great photos, snacked, and my husband tried his hand at wading and fly fishing, but without waders, he couldn't get deep enough to avoid the trees. The water was cold!! but refreshing :-)We had thought of continuing on to Gobbler's Knob (and the ranger at Longmire said its snow free), but we were tired and decided to turn back. Overall a great trip to a pretty secluded little lake. Definitely recommend!I rode up to Round Pass to check out the conditions of the road and to just get out on the bike. It's been a couple weeks without serious riding!! The road is washed out within the first mile beyond the parking lot. It's not terrible (see pic). There are 3 trees that cross the road from the parking lot to Round Pass. All are very easy to get over or go around. I wasn't expecting to hike, so I left the bike lock at home. I regret that decision. Other hikers advised that the trail to Lake George is snow free, but there is a lot of snow to Gobbler's Knob Lookout.Westside road is snow-free up to Round Pass. The road has washed out at the 1.2 mile mark. You can readily get around this by going down to the creek.   Lake George Trail is snow-free, one blow-down, easy to get by.       The Round Pass connecter is in good shape.  A dozen blow-downs, some challenging, on the first mile of the South Puyallup River Trail. A little difficult to find the way through the boulders and such at the .6 mile mark. At .9 on the South Puyallup River trail there is a 30 foot washout. I went down to the river to try to get past this, but there was no way to do this without crossing the river. The slope is very steep above the washout and was not a good option for this hiker on this day (going solo).Started out at entrance of West side Road at Nisqually entrance of Rainier. Hiked 7 miles to Lake George Trail head. Then about a mile to Lake George. Absolutely stunning! A best kept secret perhaps ? No one has mentioned this camp before as being so beautiful. I had the shelter all to myself, except for some tiny field mice running around at night but all my food and toiletries on bear pole so they didn't get into anything. I heard owls during the night, it was a beautiful starry night. Next morning early hike up to Gobblers Knob and then on my way to Devils Dream camp. After passing South Puyallop camp the hike is an uphill climb all the way to Indian Henry's . I lost the trail a bit in a rocky area before Indian Henry's , it was at the peak of the climb I ended up on a path of blue ribbon markers on the side of the ridge that was pretty hard to walk on. I do not think this was the trail as I met up shortly with a trail that was more obvious. After this area it is a steep downhill. Indian Henry's area was beautiful! I met up with a ranger on the trail who was on his way to the cabin and let me see inside, what a treat. Finally arrived at Devils Dream camp which was packed ! Every space occupied and a lot of groups. Pretty noisy until about 10pm then silence. Slept well considering the loud buzzing of a busy hornets nest 3 feet from my tent. Departed camp around 9 am for Longmire. Got stung on the neck by hornet while replenishing water at first water source stream. Easy stroll the first few miles then steep downhill trail into Longmire. Decided to add one more hike in before leaving the park. Eagle Peak was a steady climb up switchbacks for 3.5 miles and a 3200 elevation gain. Trail opens up at the end to a rocky climb to the ridge line. My feet were feeling the pain on the way down. A very long day of hiking. This entire trip was beautiful with stunning landscapes, the Tahoma Suspension bridge , Indian Henry's , waterfalls, flowers, gray jays every where , etc...Quite an amazing experience for a solo hike. I met awesome people on the trail and at camps! FYI if you take the trail to Indian Henry's from South Puyallop River area be aware of your water options, a lot of the creeks are dry. There was 2 water sources on the way to Devils Dream and it meant packing all my water on the uphill climb. No water source at Devils Dream. Also EaglePeak had one water source stream on the way up about 2.5 miles into the climb so take water with you to start. Refill on way down.Trail directions: When you've walked the Westside Road to Round Pass, marked by a sign where you can kind of make out the words "Round Pass" (also, the road starts heading downhill at this point), look left. There is an old parking area, and there may be stick arrows and cairns. Go toward this, and you'll see, on the right, a small trail sign. All 3 of us that camped at Lake George last night overshot this area (I was under the impression we were supposed to hike Westside Rd until the end. No). The 4 mile road hike is tedious, but it only took us 1:20 to do. Then there was just the .9 to Lake George. So, a fast ike. This isn't really the best of Mt Rainier, but we couldn't get a permit for our first (or second) choices, and it was so smoky we thought a lake would be good rather than going on a hike where the views are the thing. You can hike the 1.6 miles to Gobbler's Knob from camp; 100 Hikes calls the hike "gentle" though I would call this fairly steep. Camps have nice big flat spots but like almost all Rainier backcountry camps, they are in the woods, and sites are in a cluster. So don't expect a very secluded site. Only 3 of the 5 sites were occupied on an August Saturday (the group camp was as well, but that was set apart from the others). There's a toilet and bear food hanger thing-y. Looking at the lake from Gobbler's Knob, it's a lot bigger than it appears from the camp area. It's sort of in 3 parts But there doesn't seem to be an established trail going all the way around it (that we saw). If the air hadn't been so smoky, though, the views from Gobbler's Knob would probably have made this a fine overnight destination.Hiked to Noble Knob via George Lake today from Forest Road 7222. There were only a few more couples on the trail, and it was a perfect day. Saw some deer, flowers are blooming and George Lake was very peaceful, we were the only ones there. Ate lunch and then took a side switch up to Noble Knob. We have done this hike before from Dalles Ridge, but this was by far the best route, a little longer and steeper but worth it. The roads are much better and not as steep and rough. No bugs today. The best directions to the trail head I got from the mountaineers website and they were spot on. From SR 410, turn north onto Forest Road 70 and drive 5.8 mi. Turn right onto FR 72 and drive 0.7 mi, then turn left onto FR 7220 and drive 1.0 mi.  Turn right onto FR 7222 (no sign) and drive 3.4 mi, bearing left at the fork to stay on FR 7222, and drive 1.2 mi. Take the left fork and drive 1.0 mi. Watch carefully for the trailhead on the right.  There are 2 spots to park, one is a pull in off the road and the other is a little father up the road on the roadside. At both parking spots, watch for posts with no trail sign on them and that's where you enter the trail for the steep climb up to the best views in the area, too bad the gun ranges disturb the tranquility now an then.Headed back out to the West Side Road this morning and did the trip up to Gobblers Knob. Only saw a couple of goats on the cliffs today. Did see a deer cross the road as we turned onto the West Side Road early this morning. Trail is in pretty good shape once you walk the almost 4 miles of road to get to it. Past Lake George there are several patches of snow to cross but none proved that difficult. Poles might be handy on the way down. Views at the top did not disappoint. Can't believe this hike was this do-able so early in May. Go now and beat the crowds!Wednesday, March 25th-A few of my friends and I were on spring break and wanted to go on a moderately easy backpacking trip in the Cascades to take advantage of the lack of snow (which unfortunately means droughts).  Locations we were looking at were Ipsut Creek Campground off of Carbon River in the NW part of Mount Rainier NP or the Lake George Shelter/campsites in the Longmire region in the SW section of the park. We ended up choosing Lake George due to its shorter distance and difference in elevation gain compared to Ipsut Creek.  It was a slow start from Seattle with an easy drive to the park.  The rain was sprinkling and we had a bit of a wait getting backcountry permit and bear canister from the Longmire Wilderness Information Center due to a staffing shortage that day.   Westside Road was easy to drive for the most post but ridden with small potholes.  Finally starting our hike in at 3:30pm (later than we had planned), the 3.5 road section was a steady hike up to the trailhead on the left (west).  Everything was clouded in so no views of Mt. Wow or Rainier.  There was a few inches of snow from the previous day.  Slippage was minimal and we were accompanied by a steady rain.  There was one stream crossing but a simple single sill bridge has been constructed over it.  Elk tracks and possibly deer noted.  No other signs of wildlife besides one bird call. The last ~0.9 section of actual trail was extremely slippery with the slushy snow and our group took it slow.  The steepness of the trail was greater than the road but all the bridges were intact and there were no downed trees.  We made it to the camp in a little over 2.25 hours and set up our tent in the shelter.  The shelter is leaky so be sure that your tent, rainfly, and footprint are solid.   Thursday, March 26th-Two of us opted to stick around Lake George and explore around the area while the other two checked out the Gobblers Knob lookout tower.  Party sunny day and my friends tell me that the views were amazing.  The trail was somewhat hard to find due to snow but they would find it on and off.  Hike to the lookout was fairly steep and a lot of slipping took place. We weren't able to find a trail around the lake but there are plenty of locations to filter water.  A trail closer to the shelter and the campsites allowed various openings to the lake as well as the creek draining from it.  We found what we believe are wolf tracks.  Hear a few birdsongs. Friday, March 27th-Much of the snow had melted and the trail back to the road was completely devoid of snow.  Drainage in the soil as well as on the trail was good as there weren't any muddy patches and I felt comfortable going downhill.  There were a few views of Rainier as we hiked back to Westside Road.  Westside Road was completely snow free and our hike back to the car was easy going.  The shoulder where we were the only ones on Wednesday had several cars parked belonging to folks who were traveling up the road.  NPS employees were moving items around with a CAT in the upper lot about midway between where the road is closed and the Lake George trailhead.   Saw a woodpecker but was too far away to identified.  Heard various birds throughout the morning.    Lake George facilities-There are two outhouses.  Make sure to bring your own toilet paper and hand sanitizer as neither are stocked.  There are no bear boxes or lines to store/hang food from so make sure you're creative with tying bear hangs.  The surrounding trees are branch free until about 30 or 40 feet up.Finally got a week off from work and decided to head up to Lake George for a couple of nights with my son. Naturally, the time I decide to go camping was the time when rain was forecast for the first time in weeks. We started at the West Side Road where the road is blocked due to rock slides. The road march to the trailhead for Lake George is uphill but pretty gentle. When we started the sun was out and beating down on us. About two miles from the trailhead, the sun disappeared and we could hear thunder coming in. Not long after we started on the actual trail to Lake George, it started to rain lightly. We got to the campground just as the rain started to come down harder. Luckily there is an old shelter at the site that we took cover under. We didn't see anyone else around so I set the tent up under the shelter. I am glad we did as it rained pretty steadily all night long. There was one other camper up there who later brought his tent under the shelter too as he was starting to float away at his site.  The next day the rain let up and my son and I hiked up to Gobbler's Knob. Of the places I have been to since I moved up here last year, this has been my favortie so far. The views are incredible. The trail up is steeper but in good shape except for one blowdown which can be climbed over or under. The clouds even broke up a bit and we had some sunshine to help dry us off. There are various flowers still blooming along the trails. At the top, we had good views of the whole area even with the clouds. We even saw Mount Rainier for a bit when the clouds parted. Later that evening, we explored the primative trail that seems to go around Lake George. I couldn't quite tell if the trail was ever an official trail or that enough people in the past had gone that way to make it into a faint path. It is definitely overgrown in places. We made it to the far side before we turned around as it was getting dark and the path started to look pretty sketchy.  On Thrusday we enjoyed breakfast and watched the clouds drift through the trees. At times you couldn't even see the lake but it was beautiful to watch. After packing up, we departed. Oh, a couple of other notes, there are mice up there so make sure you do not leave food out at night. There are pit toilets there but no fires are allowed. And the stream near the campsite that was feeding the lake, that was there a few weeks ago, is now all dried up as the snow has all melted.Had an amazing day.  The first thing that struck us was the boulders that were on the road where the parking area used to be.  About a month ago, rock fell from Mt. Wow landing on the parking lot.  They were huge!  They even left huge crater holes when they landed.  The road hiking up was really nice, all the way to round pass.  Then we took the trailhead to Lake George on the left.   Lake George has some snow on it.  We explored the camp area and it was snow free, except for a few small patches.  It was very beautiful.  When we hiked back, we stopped at the Memorial where 37 Marines lost their lives in a plane accident in 1946 on the Tahoma Glacier.  We hiked about 10 miles because of our side trips.  We had a great time!We took advantage of a nice day and attempted to hike to Lake George.  We drove Westside Road to the gate.  As we hiked on the road past the gate, the road was snowless for the first two miles.   There were also a couple trees down on the road, but easily passible.  Then we got into snow.  There was about a foot of snow after the second mile, and a little mushy.  No deep postholing but our boots went in a few inches.  There was about 4 to 5 feet of snow in places.  We hiked up to Round Pass and to the Marine Memorial.  It was a nice sunny day, but clouds started to come in when we were coming down.  We did not hike the .9 miles to Lake George as we got a late start on this hike.  But I think in about another month, the trail should pretty much open up.  Beautiful weather, 70 degrees, no clouds. We backpacked in to Lake George which is a 4.9 mile hike. The hike is along a gravel/rocky road for the first 4 miles. It is still pretty, in the trees, but few views. At 4 miles you come to Round Pass, look to your left for the trail marker to Lake George. From the trail marker it is another .9 miles up a steeper elevation (which we weren't expecting according to Mt. Rainier website). However, the last .9 miles are beautiful on a normal woodland trail with magnificent views of Mt. Rainier. Lake George is a crystal clear lake surrounded by trees, mountains and rocky peaks. There are 5 wilderness campsites which you need a wilderness camping permit for. I definitely recommend staying here! Do the 1.6 mile hike further up to Gobbler's Knob! Must do that!!9/17-19. Overnight Monday at Lake George, and Tuesday at Klapatche Park. Good thing about weekday hike is that it's easy to get these wilderness permits.Westside Road to Round Pass (~3.8 miles) is bike-able, especially coming back. All it takes is gravity. The road is rough only on a few spots, especially at about a few minutes in, a log was used to let the foot passengers through. I pushed my bike in water. Good it was not deep and it was short. Even though the grade is gentle, I pretty much pushed my bike rather than ride it all the way to Round Pass. At Round Pass, there's a bike rack. My bike is the only one there. Behind the rack is the trail head to Lake George. 5 individual sites, 1 group site, 1 bear pole, 1 shelter. Not really any view of the lake from the camp sites, nor much view of Mt Rainier (trees blocking most of it).Gobbler's Knob is excellent. 360 degree view. Well worth going. Only 1.6 miles from Lake George.South Puyallup camping area is next to some interesting rock formation. But the river is too muddy to cook with.St Andrews' Lake is probably half of its max size. Aurora Lake has only little water left, with grass floating on it. Undrinkable. I cooked my dinner and breakfast at St Andrews' Lake. On the other side of St Andrews' Lake, a trail goes up to a butte for a good view. Klapatche Park has 4 sites. Very nice. Close to the trail. Sitting on the log by the campsite at night and watching the fading Mt Rainier and myriad of stars is my best time of the hike, or arguably one of the best backpacking experiences.We went in via FS RD 59 to Glacier View trail. Go right at the junction, stopping at Goat Lake along the way, then getting to Rainier Border, then up to Lookout. Trail is nice and easy to follow, very peaceful going along beljica meadows, back into the forest, lots of up and down on this trail. We were so EXCITED to reach the LO! Weather was changing constantly and we hung out up here for over an hour watching the clouds go in and out and wondering if we would ever get the full on shot we wanted. But it was almost better not, more dramatic and mysterious looking with just pieces of mountain showing at all different times. We ate and laughed and shot LOTS of photos. The best saying was "BUT LOOK AT THE MOUNTAIN NOW!" We finally decided to head down and the girls said let's tag george lake too, i thought about that up, but when are we doing to have the chance again, so we cruised downhill all the way. It was a quick decend. The lake was green/blue gorgeous and the shelter & cabin were really cool. We filtered water and rested then headed back up and back the way we came. Long day but worth every step. My husband and I backpacked to Lake George starting, Friday,  August 3, 2012.  We started about noon on a warm day.  Going up West Side Road was not bad.  We hiked to Round Pass where the Lake George trailhead was located on the left.  When we reached the lake, it was so emerald green, really beautiful and serene.   We were the only ones there so we chose campsite 5 as it had a nice lake view and was close to water.  There were hardly any bugs, it was great.  My husband and I were the only ones staying at the campground.  We did not even have to put our rain fly on our tent as the weather was great!  On Saturday, we decided to hike up to Gobblers Nob Lookout, then hike to Goat Lake.  There were some small spots of snow on the trail to Gobblers Nob, the trail was really good.  The avalanche lillies were beautiful!  At Gobblers Nob the views were so awesome!  We could see Mt. Adams, Mt. St. Helens, and Mt. Hood.  Also had a great view of Mt. Wow and Mt. Beljica.  After Gobblers Nob Lookout, we hiked to Goat Lake.  The trail to Goat Lake is quite narrow with lots of over growth, but the trail can be seen.  Goat Lake was also beautiful.  We had a nice lunch there then headed back to our campsite at Lake George.  When we got back to our campsite, there were still no other campers in site, so we had the area to ourselves again, it was so quiet.  On Sunday, after a nice breakfast, we got our backpacks ready to head back down to our vehicle.  We had a wonderful three days.  Great lakes, lookout, seclusion and trails.This is a different type of post than you are used to seeing from me.  All images were taken with my phone, despite having all my camera gear on my back! Nothing earth shattering here for photography.  Instead, my intent is to share beta for anyone contemplating anything up the West Side Road at Rainier.  Lots and lots of snow! I set out from the Dry Creek gate at 9:00.  The lower West Side Road is in the best condition I have seen it in several years.  Definitely consider your bike for any trips later in the year. There was only a single car parked at the gate, and I ran into its owner shortly past Tahoma Creek.  He warned me about the pending snow just around the next bend, and he was right.  This snow was consistent all the way to Round Pass, where about 5' of snow awaited me.I took a moment to visit the Marine Memorial, which was decorated with flags (more than appear here).  Weather was sunny all the way up (and back), but Rainier was shrouded in clouds.My curiosity got the best of me and I went back to investigate the Lake George trail.  I found the TH and followed the obvious tracks and signs a short ways.  Soon the tracks stopped, but I felt comfortable in finding the route having been here before.  The higher I climbed, the easier the route finding became.  Soon I was at the patrol cabin, then Lake George.  It was 10:45.On my return down the "trail", I ran into fresh bear tracks very near the TH - a bear of significant size I would say.I returned to my truck at ~12:30.Snowshoes were not needed.  But I could see the snow softening up in the afternoon sun.This is a great hike for beginners or young hikers, also a good bike & hike outing. The first 3.3 miles is on the abandoned West Side Road to Round Pass. Then an easy mile to Lake George. Lots of good campsites and a great view of Mt Rainier from the far end of the lake. This year the lake was still frozen and lots of snow around the lake. We wanted to go to Gobblers Knob but was unable to find the trail amongst the snow. The abandon West Side Road is a great road to mountain bike. At the trailhead is a bike rack to lock up your bike while you hike the trail to the lake.In spite of the heavy clouds we encountered on the way east, the mountain finally broke out before we got to Ashford.  After picking up our permit at the WIC, we headed back to the trailhead and started up the road at about 12:30.  Fortunately, there is occasional shade along the way or we might have melted.  The stretch where Tahoma Creek has washed out the road is amazing.  I can see why the park has decided to abandon maintaining it for visitors.  We fairly quickly made it up to Round Pass.  Having forgotten our map in the car (We're taking a road and one trail.  What could go wrong?) and not seeing a trail sign on the west side of the road, we pushed on down the north side of the pass.  We did see a trail sign on the east side of the road, but nothing denoting which trail or where it lead to.  We thought we'd gone too far, but we didn't want to turn around before we'd arrived and it seems to be our habit to initially go past a place we are trying to find for the first time.  After crossing the  S. Puyallup, we came across a park vehicle heading back out and asked we'd gone too far.  It really wasn't the answer we wanted, but back up to the pass we began trudging.  After a few minutes, we came across another couple, kitted for a day hike, who also had missed the Lake George trailhead.  Okay, it wasn't just us.  When we finally got to the top of the pass, we found the trail, hidden from the road by a group of tents put up by an SCA crew.  When we'd hit the pass the first time, we hesitated, but not being the sort of folks who just tromp through another's camp site, we didn't go looking.  There also wasn't a sign on the road indicating a trailhead.  We assumed that this wasn't the trailhead, thinking that you don't pitch a tent in front of a trail entrance.  And as they say about people who assume...Oh, and the sign on the opposite side of the road?  Hitting the pass from the north, we could just make out in the grass a sign for trail distances.  If the park is going to put signs at near ground level, they should remember to frequently brush around them. So up we go toward Lake George.  Nothing makes you appreciate a well built trail the way working on a crew does (and if you haven't volunteed for a WTA crew, you should).  This is a nicely built trail in good shape.  It could use a little brushing in places, but overall is in very good shape.  A few short sections of roots and rocks, but nothing bad.  The closer we get to LG, the more we encounter the flying vampires.  Because of our extra mileage, it's now late in the afternoon and they are coming out in force.  No gang biting yet, but almost.  Upon arriving at the lake, we discovered the campsites (all five of them) empty.  We had the place to ourselves.  Oh the joy of being able to go on a weekday.  Now if only I could go in September or October.After picking a site and setting up camp, we walked around a bit.  There's a good shelter with lots of room, facing the lake.  The pit toilets didn't smell like I feared they might, given the temperatures, but they are a bit cramped inside.  The lake had your typical clouds of vampires.  Now we head up to the final objective of the day, Gobblers Knob.  The trail gradually narrows and becomes rocky.  Between LG and the trail junction for GK and the park boundary, there are patches of snow and soggy ground.  More vampires!  The patches of snow are small and you can always see the trail on the other side.  There are a couple of small blowdowns in this section, one that you can easily step over and another that you have to go under.  After the trail junction, there is one more tree down across a switchback, so you have to go under it twice.  The view from the lookout is amazing.  After eating our dinner, we hung out for about an hour, just enjoying the views.  Rainier commands most of our attention, but I can't help wondering what it would have been like to be in the lookout on the morning St. Helens erupted with the blast roughly headed towards you?  Probably would have soiled myself, I'm afraid to say. Time to head back down the trail and to the tent before dark.  In spite of the heat, detour and the growing number of welts, it's been a good day.  We've seen the power of a flooding creek, uncountable avalanche lillies with the occasional paintbrush, and those glorious views of my favorite mountain.The next morning we are up early and heading back to the car.  Before leaving for home we wanted to spend some time at (in?) Paradise.  This day the mountain was socked in, but the change in temperature was refreshing and it kept our focus on the flora around us.  It's either a late bloom or we missed the peak because there wasn't nearly as much color as I had expected.  Got some good shots of a hummingbird feeding on the paintbrush.After lunch at the Inn, it was time to head home.  I'd like to get back up and try this hike again later in the year when the weather is cooler.  I can't think of a better overnight trip for when you don't have a lot of time.Some friends had told us the West Side Road in Mt. Rainier NP was open, so we took our mountain bikes in for a day of biking and hiking.  Drove 3 miles on West Side Road to the locked gate, then parked and clipped into our bikes.  Large patches of snow on the road in several places forced us to carry our rides, and we had to cross Fish Creek the same way.  Once we got to the other side, we hit a few more patches of snow early on, but pretty much were able to ride an uninterrupted 3 miles on the steadily uphill, well-packed gravel road.  Between miles 2.9 and 3.4, we met up with quite a bit of slushy snow, so it was back to trudging uphill pushing our bikes by hand.  Then from miles 3.4 to 4, there was more great riding and no snow.  At Round Pass, the trailhead area is covered in about 18" of snow.We locked our bikes at the rack and hiked the trail up to Lake George, a short 1 mile walk to the still mostly frozen lake. The trail is snowbound much of the way, so you do need to keep your bearings.  We got a little ways off the trail as we neared the lake, but the ranger station was easy to spot on our left, so we hiked down to the shelter and ate lunch.  Low clouds, obscured views, and snow on the trails, caused us to give up trying for Gobbler's Knob.  Estimate the snow level is at around 4200 ft right now on this part of the mountain.  Too early in the season still for decent hiking.  Oh well...at least bombing downhill on our bikes on the return trip made all the snow trudging and bike-toting worthwhile.Fun work party with Evonne.  The trail-building now starts 3 miles from the trail head.  The trail that exists is in good shape, not too difficult, although there are some steep sections.  Beautiful trees, creek, and waterfall on the way in. There is columbine blooming now. Even if the connector trail is not yet done, this is a really fun out and back in a lovely valley.  Our group of 5 volunteers chopped back a tree stump, set a rock step, smoothed out tread, and dug out duff where the new trail will be.I hiked this soon-to-be-lovely trail as part of a WTA work party. It's easy to see why a new trail is being constructed here: it's a beautiful spot! There aren't any spectacular views of distant mountains, nor any spectacular vistas of any kind, but what this spot has is gorgeous views of a tumbling stream and plenty of curving trail winding away between rocks and trees. You know what a great way to experience this new trail would be? Or any other trail, for that matter? As part of a WTA work party! If you're here, reading this trip report, you've been getting value out of the work that WTA does. I hope you're a member of the organization and get the spectacular magazine, but it's even more fun to go a step further and become a volunteer. It's what I started doing about a year and a half ago and I haven't looked back. You might hate it, but I'm betting you won't, and that you'll find the experience to be rich and rewarding.The Martin Creek Connector trail is a work in progress by the Volunteers for Outdoor Washington, a group dedicated to the Iron Goat trail and lore.  This trail will connect the Iron Goat trail to the Kelly Creek trail.  When completed, the first third of the Kelly Creek trail will be decommissioned.  It was boring anyway. The Martin Creek Connector switchbacks down to the creek, crosses a contractor-built bridge and makes its way through the woods on the west bank.  Very impressive rock work lines the switchbacks and some equally impressive massive log cribs hold the trail along the slopes.  In general, the tread as far as it has been constucted is solid and in excellent shape.  Early on, a side trail climbs up to the lower Horseshoe Tunnel entrance.  Here trains in the early 1900's made a giant underground loop on their way to gain altitude to get over Stevens Pass. The trail crosses a well built log bridge with handrails about halfway up and enters a pleasant little space loaded with Miner's Lettuce.  Tasty!  Further along is a stoutly constructed platform and crib ladder on which we worked a whole week.  This trail will be a vast improvement over the old Kelly Creek trail.my wife and I hiked this trail with the dog.  as always the dog loved it.  the trail head from the dog park makes a pretty good rise up to the highest point of the trek.  the black berries are almost ready to pick and the sound of the creek is really nice.  bring your water and enjoy the beauty of the nature all around.We started at the dog park and went up the trail that begins on the right side (west of the dog area). After following the trail up the grade, which follows parallel to the water and gravel road to the east, we stayed to the right at the Y's. We eventually ended up at another entrance to the trail on 6th street (see photos for map).  The jaunt we took going south (where we back-tracked) was likely going to take us to Randolph Road, but I'm not sure exactly. We turned around because my partner's knee was bothering him. The trail down to 6th street is pretty overgrown, but it was obvious there was still a trial there.  I walked through lots of spiderwebs (you're welcome), so it seemed that not many people used that upper ridge trail (most people stay to the left at the Y's I guess?) Anyhoo, trail was decent, a few patches of mud. The path down to 6th street, which puts you pretty close to someone's home (so I wouldn't necessarily advise it on the regular), starts where you see the split tree on the path (see photo). That's likely a sign that maybe it shouldn't be used, but my partner didn't want to risk going back the way we came and further injure his knee.  My tracker said it was 1.35 miles (with the extra jaunt and back), a max elevation gain of 174 feet (with max at 363 feet),Nice hike on a hot day at Japanese Gulch. First time checking out these trails. Did a loop starting at the dog park, meandering down towards the Boeing plant, then looping back on the other side of the train tracks on trails to the parking lot. Trails were in good shape. This is a nice area, doesn't involve very much driving from Seattle, and the trails don't seem very crowded. Saw a few mountain bikers as well as a few hikers. I'd recommend checking these trails(could even be a nice after-work hike!).First time here on a drizzly Sunday and no other walkers but me. I started at the dog park and just followed the path(s) that kept climbing uphill. Neat little creek and forest here, lots of birds chirping and snails and slugs about. Eventually the trail looped around to the gravel path and lead me back to the car. Lots of side trails but doubt you can get lost here. Nice little bit of elevation change but something anyone could accomplish. Aside from aircraft overhead it felt like a hike in the wilderness.Our hike began on the trail off to right of the dog park.  We arrived around noon, and there was still plenty of parking in the lot and along Mukilteo Boulevard.  The trail begins with a very gradual ascent past many large old stumps with springboard notches, now serving as nurse trees.  Lots of bleeding hearts blooming.  Due to our recent good weather the trail was mostly dry and in good condition.  My hiking partner spent a lot of time roaming these trails as a boy, so he had some idea of which direction to travel which was good because the trail is completely unmarked.  After wandering gently up for about 3/4 mile, a blow down blocks the trail, but it was relatively easy to get around.  But right after the tree, the trail drops rather steeply down to the small creek which runs along the gravel road.  I was actually glad to have brought along my trekking poles to help me down to the creek.  After an easy crossing we made our way up the gravel road for a short time until the trail picks back up on the right.  After crossing back over the creek the trail begins to climb a bit through a more forested part of the gulch with lots of Cedar & Doug firs.  There are many "Y"s in the trail which are unmarked.  We generally stayed to the left, and made our way up the ridge.  I really loved this part of the hike-it looks like a more traditional PNW forest and except for the small planes queuing up to land at Paine Field, I felt like I was in the woods far away from civilization.  At a little over the two mile mark we veered to the right and the trail opened up to a paved, but unused road.  My hiking partner remembered that back in the day there was a police department at the end of this road, which now has the Mukilteo community garden.  Instead of going back down via the trail we decided to walk down Goat Trail Road, with its beautiful views of the bay, Whidbey and Hat Island.  We then turned onto Mukilteo Boulevard and made our way back to the dog park parking lot.  Overall it was really fun to explore Japanese Gulch-next time I will cross the Boulevard and head down the trails toward the beach.  Overall our hike was 4.55 miles.Hard to give a comprehensive trip trail report because there are a seemingly endless number of interconnecting trails in this place. The route we took was pretty simple except for a couple creek crossings. We hiked all the way to the water and got dinner at the Diamond Knot, great 'urban backcountry' trip! Read more by following my link:Hiked on a wet windy Presidents Day. Trails are completely unmarked and there are a lot of downed trees (mostly cleared) and many more that sound like they will be next. One trail we chose was blocked by a downed tree which we climbed over, we got just a little further and encountered more so we turned around and chose another trail. Very muddy and slippery in many spots. I'd save this one for drier weather. 75 min up and in from dog park and 20 min back down the service road was approx 3.5 miles.You will appreciate waterproof shoes, or at least be prepared for mud and shallow Creek crossings. Trails are unmarked, but in good condition.The hike is beautiful and a great day outing for a family. The trail was muddy and dilapidated is some spots. The trail is badly in need of signage.Nice little hike in the Mukilteo. For the mot part the hiking is easy enough, with some more difficult parts. There are tons of trails throughout, so you can keep yourself plenty busy. I spent about 4 hours walking around and collected about 10.8 miles per my pedometer. There are many great views. Highly recommend as a day hike if your in the area. Also the trails are pretty well maintained. Some areas are a little ran down, but even they aren't that bad.Lot's of trails off of trail.  Just made sure I knew where the water and the rail road tracks were and dove in.  Trail was cleared and 99% dry.  Would have liked for them to have been more clearly marked rather than just randomly going left or right at multiple junctions and feeling like I was wandering around.We started from the trailhead off of 5th Street in Mukilteo by the off-leash park. The trails are not marked and there aren't a lot of good trail maps available for this hike so you have to either be familiar with the area or sort of wing it. I just tried to follow what appeared to be the main trail uphill and remember landmarks where I turned. We walked around on the top of the hill for a couple of hours and found our way back down to the main trail. From here, we found a spur trail down to a small creek with a much wider walking path on the other side. We then followed the walking path back to the area near the off-leash park where we began our hike.  The trails are generally in good shape with a little bit of mud in places. There is one blowdown which was large enough to be difficult to manage going either over or under. There is a steep portion of the trail where a staircase has been built but the boards are loose at the top of the staircase so you will need to be careful about this. I did not notice any other problems with any of the trails today. I also noticed many different species of mushroom and fungus along the trail and we basically had the trails to ourselves even though the parking lot was full when we arrived.This trail seems to be a work in progress but is looking good! Some muddy areas because this is also available for bike use. ^_^Okay we were thoroughly confused on this trail, but we enjoyed it (the trail). We began at the Dog Park and saw the sign through the gateway entrance for the Japanese Gulch Loop. We gained some elevation following along above the stream. There were various side trails along the way and what looked like the main trail was blocked. At that point we began going up the ridge to our right and up to the top of the west ridge. We then worked our way back to the trailhead for an hour's hike. The trail is drier now than it had been in previous trip reports, but I could see where this would be a very slippery tread due to the clay like dirt and the steepness of some sections. There is evidence of the old growth logging all along the trail and the place is one big lush green habitat with huge ferns and some impressive twenty foot Devils Club. We shall try this trail again soon and try to orient ourselves better. It would be great to see some signage at the many junctions to point out the loop direction, but I expect that is in the works as we could see that there was ongoing improvements taking place.Want an easy, snow free hike close in?  Try Japanese Gulch in Mukilteo.  Just take the Mulilteo Speedway to 5th Street and go north about a mile until you see the sign.  The gulch is a long wooded gully running some 2 miles from 5th Street south to Boeing property at Paine Field.  It got its name from the Japanese immigrants who lived in company housing located in the gulch in 1903 while they worked for the Mukilteo Lumber Company (later Crown Lumber Company).  There are some rumors among the locals that the immigrants were not treated well.The main route through the gulch is the rail line which Boeing uses to import and export assemblies to waiting ships.  There is a side road which is sometimes adjacent to the rails and other times running through the woods alongside.  There are many little trails and loops up along both slopes of the gulch which are fun to explore, but they do not seem to connect with each other.  They are used mainly by mountain bikers.  There are some serious muddy parts and only one loop sign which doesn't say much.Too bad, because Japanese Gulch has a lot of potential for a very interesting trail network.  There is a Japanese Gulch group of volunteers who maintain and advocate for the gulch.  The salmon berries are beginning to bloom and there are lots of them. Was not sure where to start the hike, was hiking with someone local to the area.  Drove by the beginning of the trail of Chuckanut Drive, but wanted to find the Samish Overlook parking.  This was about 25 minutes away (GPS) with entry on the other side of the mountain.  Sign for Blanchard Hill Trail System not obvious when driving from the opposite direction on Barrell Spring.  Road is a dirt gravel road, not quite wide enough for two cars to pass unless one stops, watch for pot holes.  Directions are spot on, just keep driving.  Will come to a wide circular area where extra cars may park, drive about another 30 yards and you will come to the Samish Overlook parking area.  WA Discover Pass needed to park here.  Already quite a bit up the hill, with a beautiful view with some benches around to enjoy the view.  Looks like two take off areas for paragliders, but none today.  Good signage to direct you to Oyster Dome, begins on the Chuckanut Trail, and starts downhill.  Intersects with the Samish Bay Trail, go right and trail is then uphill.  After a couple of miles, will come to another intersection with directions to the Oyster Dome, Samish Overlook, Chuckanut Drive and Lily Lake.  Oyster Dome is about 20 to 30 minutes beyond, depending on how quickly you are hiking.  I stop a lot on the uphill.  :)  View was totally worth it.  Very sunny today, no cloud cover, was glad we were almost entirely in the trees and shade on the hike.  Several different areas to sit and enjoy the view.  Also, can sit back in the trees.  Great hike, totally worth doing again.  Distance is about 5 miles from the Samish Overlook.Wow! As hiking novices and flat-landers (from Minnesota), my husband and I didn't fully expect a totally uphill hike! I think I saw this rated as moderate somewhere and I would say yes, moderate is correct. We're not in great shape, not young either (both recently retired), but managed it okay. I think we did the ascent in 1 hr 45 minutes and down was 1 hour and 20 minutes. We did stop along the way both up and down to rest, drink water, snap photos and to say to ourselves, "wow, we're out of shape and this is really good exercise!" Even the downhill had a lot of uphill back to the Samish Overlook---I know that sounds like it doesn't make sense, but we had a lot of uphill going back to a car. To be perfectly honest, the views from the parking lot are pretty similar to the views from the top, except the views from the top are more expansive and panoramic. The last part of the trail is difficult to pick out, but it's evident it's up and to the left, so you have to pick your way through a tangle of root-bound footing at the base of towering trees. We heard voices finally and followed those! It is quite a view, but it is also quite a hike and quite a workout for beginners like us. We're wiped out but we enjoyed ourselves. It was also quite warm hovering near 80 so it's fortunate most of the ascent was in the shade. The trail was in excellent condition.Oyster Dome is one of my "never on a weekend" hikes.  Even showing up in the late afternoon on a sunny weekday, the side of the road was lined with cars. Of course, there is a reason that it is so busy., especially on a nice day.  The views are stupendous.  This as my first time on the trail since the new switchbacks on the final climb to the Oyster Dome junction were completed -- the last time a few were done, and there were several under construction.  You can still pick out the path of the old route (straight up!), but a pretty good job of obscuring it has been done.  The new route is pretty luxurious: nicely graded and utterly lacking in ankle-twisting roots and rocks  Nice job! It was quite nice and peaceful at the top, with the exception of the off-leash dog that kept coming over to try to eat my dinner.  He was friendly and responsive to his owner's commands, but his owner (as perhaps evidenced by the off-leashness) was living in obliviousness land.  I consider keeping dogs on-leash to be good etiquette...not necessarily because of anything your dog will do (your dog may be the nicest, most well behaved mutt ever), but because you really don't know how others will react to the pup.  Some people have a fear of dogs, and some dogs respond to people who have a fear of dogs.  I'm a dog person, so having a great big schnoz coming over my shoulder in search to food didn't bother me at all.  With someone else, though, it could create a pretty not-nice situation.We chose to start our trip from the Samish Lookout trailhead. Watch out for the road here, because it's about 3.5 miles of gravel and potholes. We were glad we had our Subaru, but we saw plenty of sedans parked at the trailhead. Drive carefully though, as we did see one family that had gotten a flat tire on the way up and another whose car was leaking fluid. Once you make it to the trailhead, the views are great and there are remarkably clean privies there.The trail to Oyster Dome is in great condition, almost no mud and no trees over the trail. The trail can be a little hard to find closer to the top, but when in doubt go up and you'll find it soon enough. It took us about 50 minutes to get to the top at a moderate pace. The description is right about the steep dropoff. We also had the surprise of a helicopter flyby close enough that we could see people waving from the back. Overall, it was a fun hike and one that we'd definitely do again.Hiked up to Oyster Dome from Chuckanut Drive on a gorgeous Tuesday evening. The weather was excellent and the trail is in great shape. It's been many years since the last time I had hiked up there, and there have been some major improvements in the meantime. It looks as though WTA must have been busy here recently; the upper switchbacks looked almost brand-new. Thank you to whomever contributed their efforts here. I didn't have a problem finding parking on the road across from the trailhead, but there were several other cars there when I arrived at about 16:30. I encountered quite a few other parties on the trail and at the top, but it was far from crowded. No obstacles to speak of, and the bugs weren't bad at all once I started moving. Outstanding views from the Dome itself; all in all a sweet little hike!Parked on the road about a block from the trailhead - pretty easy to find parking in the morning.  Thankfully, the WTA trip reports mentioned there were no restrooms at the trailhead, so we stopped by the Starbucks in Burlington to use the loo.  It was a great trail with a nice uphill climb.  My dog and I started hiking at 9:30 AM and reached the summit at 11AM.  After the first half hour of climbing there was a bench with a beautiful view of the water.  At the top, it was pretty foggy but still lovely!  Then it took about an hour to get back down. We didn't follow the signs to check out the Samish Bay overlook or the Lily lake trails, but they looked nice for next time :)started out around 10 from the Pacific northwest trailhead.  it took about 2 hours to reach the top. it is straight up and switchback all the way so be prepared to climb. my wife and I aren't in the best shape and we made it. we had lunch at the top and spent about an hour taking in the view.  we made it back down in about an hour so all in all its a climb but well worth it at the topstarted out around 10 from the Pacific northwest trailhead.  it took about 2 hours to reach the top. it is straight up and switchback all the way so be prepared to climb. my wife and I aren't in the best shape and we made it. we had lunch at the top and spent about an hour taking in the view.  we made it back down in about an hour so all in all its a climb but well worth it at the topBeautiful early afternoon hike. Trail was dry with only a few small creek beds to cross. Hiked with 40+ pounds of kid on back so I felt it but well worth the trip. What a view!I haven't ever hiked this trail before and I did it with my 18 month old who was 37lbs in my ergo pack for my first time. Best hiking experience I've had. It was hard, but we'll worth it and the trail had been kept up great and there was fresh running water if you ran out.We began our hike around 10:30 am and got back at 2:30 pm but we took our time. Even though it was a Wednesday, there were still quite a few people hiking. The trail is very nice and easy to follow except when you get to the top. The trail splits off and for some reason the Oyster Dome sign was removed, but was there last time we hiked in September. Oyster Dome is to the left and I think there are two other trails that you would turn to the right. Also, at the very top before you come out to the peak, it's a bit confusing as there isn't really a laid out trail so just go up the hill and keep left and you'll come out to a beautiful view.  Just a heads up, there is no public bathroom at the bottom. Last time we bagged the little shop employees to let us use theirs and they let us but it's better to stop by somewhere before the hike.  It was a clear day so we had an awesome view but last time we hiked up, we had to wait a little for the fog to clear up because it was too foggy so if you want to see the water, go on a clear day.Hiked for the first time here today.  Took the Oyster Dome trail on the way up and Lily Lake trail, Max's Shortcut and Larry Reed trail back.  Trail was in great condition and what a view!Went pretty early on a Saturday, very few people on the trail. On a clear sunny morning. The trailhead itself has an absolutely marvelous view! Hike was easy and quick, trail in good condition. The view from oyster dome is great as well, all the way from Olympic peninsula, San Juan islands and Canada towards the north.  Have been trying to get back into hiking after a foot accident, and this was a great hike to resume. Tip: Go on a sunny clear day, to really enjoy the hike.Started from chuckanut road plenty of parking but it was a Thursday morning. Nice well maintained trailhead. A few steep inclines but overall not that challenging. Saw some Interesting slugs but no other wildlife.We parked at the trailhead near the Oyster House restaurant, at 9:30 or so on Sunday morning there were still plenty of spots to park. The trail is easy to follow and clear of blow-downs and debris, although to our dismay there are no bathrooms at the trailhead.It's a fairly steep hike through beautiful woods and ferns. It was a clear day, so at the top we had an amazing view of the San Juans and across the sound to the Olympic  mountains in the distance. On our way down, we decided to take the trail to Lily Lake, which was clear and peaceful-- we also saw a couple of bald eagles harassing some duck families, although the ducklings all escaped with their lives while we watched. It's a great day hike! Sore quads at the end but worth it.We hiked this wonderful trail for the first time in years with kids aged 7 and 10.  The new switchbacks are  much better than the previous straight up scrabble on rocks.  However, my Fitbit (which has been pretty accurate for every other hike/race I've done) reported 9 miles round trip rather than 6.5, we started at the bottom on chuckanut drive and took no detours.  I think it's at least 7.5-8 miles round trip now rather than 6.5.  It took us almost three hours to get up, and about 1 1/2 down, plus about a half hour resting at the top. So plan for a good 4-5 hours with kids, more if you want to linger over the amazing views at the top.  My kids did okay with it, but it is definitely a challenging hike and they were pretty tired by the end.  The trail is very well maintained, just watch for rocks and roots like most trails.  We went on a Sunday morning around 10 and while we passed a lot of people on the trail and there was little parking on the road, it never really felt crowded, which was nice.  Overall a great hike! May just need to be recalibrated mileage-wise since its been re-routed.Long drive from Seattle, but definitely worth it. Went on a sunny Sunday afternoon and the trail had a lot people, but not so many that it was annoying. The trail itself is well maintained, but it should definitely be noted that almost all of this hike is a dedicated uphill. Very good climb with lots of switchbacks to keep it interesting. The views from oyster dome are gorgeous and the hike back down is pretty quick because it's all downhill! One other point of note is that the bugs are pretty bad this time of year, most likely because the trail is so close to the water. Besides that, I would highly recommend this trail for a day hike!This weekend I had a bachelorette celebration in Bellingham, kicked off with a hike to Oyster Dome. The bride-to-be wore a tiara for the hike (and most of the day). We got lots of nice comments about it on the hike.  Most of our group had done this hike before, but none of us from this side. The Samish Bay Overlook section is quite nice through the second growth forest and the trail is wide and easily navigated. Having a parking area with views nearly as good as those from the summit as well as restrooms is really nice, compared to the sketchy parking on the side of 11 that the other trailhead has to offer.  All of us were flabbergasted by the trail reroute once on the main trail. We all remembered the straight-up-the-hill root ladder about 1.5 miles in, before the trail joins up with the Lily and Lizard Lakes Trail. Now it's a section of about 15 - 20 gorgeous switchbacks reinforced with strong rock walls. Way to go, trail crews -- it's a fantastic improvement.  There was the typical number of people at the summit (lots), but there was room for everyone and the views were, as to be expected, gorgeous.Wonderful hike with amazing views!However, upon returning to my car I found that it had been towed for being on the white line and "blocking the road". (I drive a small car and could not have parked any further over without the wheels going over the edge.) It turns out I was not alone in this and somewhere between 20-30 cars were towed. A little ridiculous when the WSP's SUV was blocking half the road and all the tow trucks coming in and out caused frequent disruptions in traffic. 2 hours and $300+ later I finally got my car back. Overall I would definitely recommend this hike but be careful with parking!!This is a popular day hike for all.  My husband, daughter and our two dogs went on this hike.  The weather was warmer and sunny in the mid 70's.  The trail is shaded so it kept the sun off of us which was really good because the trail goes up in a switch back route which gives you a good workout. This hike was 4.6 miles round trip which we did in 2 hours. I used Map My Run to calculate our mileage and time.  Once you get to the top there is an awesome view that spans over Puget Sound.  There are various sitting areas on the boulders at the top to picnic and take in the view.   There are two trailheads to this hike. The first is off of Chuckanut Drive which would make the round trip 6 miles. We opted to hike out of Samish lookout.  There two jump points for air gliders.Hiked Oyster Dome yesterday and it was amazing. Lots of people but views were spectacular. Once we got down, found out that my car had been towed...along with about 30 other cars. Apparently, this is something that occurs pretty much every weekend. There is absolutely no signage on the road itself that warns about getting towed. I was parked by a wall and maybe on the white line a bit but in no way blocking traffic. Of course, if I had seen a sign, I wouldn't have parked there. Not out to endanger anyone's life...just out for a hike on a holiday weekend.  Anyway, I don't want this to happen to anyone else. WSP was totally an  unhelpful jackass, it cost a ton of money (holiday weekend prices), and it almost ruined the whole experience. Silver lining- got to ride with tow truck dude back to place to get my car.Going into this hike on Memorial Day I knew it was going to be packed and it was. We arrived at the trail head at 1:30 pm and passed the majority of the hikers coming down within the first hour. I was impress by the number of young children who were with their families on this trail since it was fairly steep and slippery in more than a few areas, way to go kiddos. The switchbacks seemed never ending (but they always do) on the way up and the trail was pretty and green with a few huge boulders here and there. The bench is a great break point for some water and a snack. Once you get to the top, you are definitely ready to be there, the last little bit is straight up. The view is breathtaking in all directions. Most people stick to the rocks that lookout out to Anacortes, Cypress Island, Lumi Island etc. But, don't forget to walk around a bit because you can see Bellingham from a big boulder a little farther north of the main lookout; just as beautiful. On the trip back down I realized why most people were jogging, it was easier on the knees and hips and kept you from sliding on the slightly muddy trail. It only took us 45 min. to get back to the trail head. It was a great hike but, I would've liked to see a little more responsibility from a handful of dog owners who didn't clean up messes directly on the trail and who let their dogs run off leash with so many people/kids sharing the trail.My girlfriend and I started this hike at about 8:30 Am Sunday morning.We got to the top between 11 and 11:30AM. We stopped at one of the lookouts for about 20-30 minutes.Unfortunately we went too early so everything was foggy and we didn't get to actually see much once we got to the top. It was still a great hike though. The sun came out for our hike down which was nice and we were able to at least get a photo from the first lookout at the bench.  This trail was not as expected, I had many people tell me it was a relatively easy hike and for the most part flat terrain. The trail starts off at an incline from the get go and doesn't really seem to stop. That being said, the trail was in great condition and is very well maintained. It is very easy to follow, and there are a few places you can stop and look out over the Bay, as long as it is not foggy.  There are multiple trails along this hike so be sure to pay attention to the trail signs and follow the correct paths. It is very well marked though.  An overview,- Go on a sunny day where you can see out over the water instead of just fog. - Not for people who have a hard time with hills or stairs. 75% of this hike was an incline. - A few lookouts give you a nice place to take a short break and enjoy a view. - Trails are very well taken care of.  In the end, we were satisfied with the hike.I come here very often, at least a couple of times a month and have done it all year long, definitely recommend for a shorter day hike! The trail is only 30 minutes away from my home and is perfect for an early morning hike before work!It was great day to hike Oyster Dome. Started the hike around 10:30 AM. There was a few people on the trail but it wasn't overcrowded. The trail was in great condition. There weren't any obstacles. It took me an hour to make it to the top. On the way down, I noticed there was more people than when I started. Overall, it was a great hike!Hadn't done this trail in a couple of years, and was reminded why I have a love/hate relationship with it. On the up side, great spring warm-up hike - not many places you can get a 1900 foot gain snow-free this time of year. Also, the trail is in great condition. Last time I went up they were just starting to build some new switchbacks on the upper section. Those are finished now, and it sure beats climbing straight up the slope over roots and rocks - though based on my GPS watch it adds about a 1/2 mile each way (about 7.3 round trip). On the down side, sketchy parking  along the side of a busy road. On any day with decent weather it's always crowded, and that was certainly true today. A school group with about 30 teens and adults went up right before us. They were nice but made a lot of noise at the top - not exactly a tranquil day in nature. The clear cut near the junction with the overlook trail still annoys me - I understand that the politics are complicated, but it's hard to understand how a trail that gets this much traffic can't be better protected. But  I'll probably still keep coming up here, maybe just try to stick with weekdays and off-season.Another teacher workday found me with my own 12 & 14 year olds plus another 14 year old. So we hit up this Puget Sound favorite. Monday's are a great day for hiking and avoiding the crowds.We got a lat start as all the kids stayed up late the night before, but we easily found parking along Chuckanut Drive near the trailhead when we arrived a little past 11am. Seems I have hiked this trail for years and it just gets better and better. Hardly any mud along it which had not been the case on my previous visits. The trail is in super shape and there was even a trail crew working on it today. Thank you!!The top was far from crowded with 2 other people there when we arrived who left quickly and a while later 2 more showed up. One downer was that I smelled marijuana on the top and also on the way down we walked past some people who clearly had just finished smoking some, as we walked through a very potent patch of air. I never enjoy walking kids through someones smoke.Was a wonderful sunny day with hardy any wind. Was perfect for my aerial photography!Great day for aerial photography, check out the video!Went on a Wednesday so no problems with crowds, in facet barely saw anyone until the top, and then it was not too bad....but, quieter voices would have been lovely.  Views awesome, immediately saw eagles, some chipmunks on rock, napped in the sunshine for an hour.  Took us 2 hours to the view, an hour and half back down.  This hike is an hour away from king county, and that plus the view on top are the reasons I would come back again on another sunny day.  The hike itself is hard, but not awful, and the route is pretty forest, a teeny bit monotonous--no old growth, rivers or lake etc, but next time I will do the Lily Like route to the top.The trail itself was wonderful. My group had a fantastic time. However, BE VERY CAREFUL of where you park. The cops were having MANY cars towed.  Nothing was marked and several people were parked up and down the street across from the trail head. Fortunately Uber happened to work so we could get my car from the towing company. It was still really not fun.  I'm not sure how many people ended up stranded there and paying over $200 to retrieve their vehicles, but if the problem is as serious as the cop claimed they should put up no parking signs where they don't want people parking.This hike was great. Challenging for sure, but the views were worth it in the end. Parking can be a challenge, getting there early was best. Pretty steep at times but fun!This hike was great. Challenging for sure, but the views were worth it in the end. Parking can be a challenge, getting there early was best. Pretty steep at times but fun!I can see why this is a classic PNW hike. The views looking out to the islands were incredible. Trail was in great condition. I ventured over to Lily Lake after summiting Oyster Dome. The trail to Lily Lake is also in great shape. Not too many people, a pretty peaceful morning.great Mothers Day hike, amazing views of Skagit, and islands. shorter way to Oyster Dome, still a great elevation gain.We started out from the Upper Trailhead parking lot and added in the additional Lily Lake trail. It turned into a beautiful day on Oyster Dome, yet the crowds were surprisingly minimal. If you haven't been here before, take a good photo of the trail map (or bring your own!). You can combine any number of these trails into a great loop hike!Trail was in excellent condition.  Parking is limited at the trailhead so try to get there early to grab a good spot. Noticed a few cars couldn't care less and practically parked half their car in the roadway.  This trail gets very busy after 10am, so I highly suggest if you want a peaceful and relaxing view, head out here early. Took my wife and I about 3 1/2 hours to do the round trip with many breaks in between.Spectacular day for a hike up to Oyster Dome.  Always a good option when time is limited and the sun is out.  Trail is in spectacular shape after much work has been done on it.  Lots of friendly folks out today hiking.  Enjoyed the sun at the top and had a nice easy saunter back to car.  Another great day to be out.  Stopped on Bow Edison for some great tacos on the way home.It was a beautiful day for this day trip! My husband and I took our time, and enjoyed the scenery and loved the view from the top!Wonderful hike as usual, the trail was in excellent condition all the way up to the lookout. Saw 20+ other hikers and theirs dogs along the way. Took an hour and a half to reach the lookout with a baby in the backpack. The lookout was a little crowded, so me and my daughter ventured towards Lily Lake. My daughter insisted on getting out of the back pack to walk (she's almost 2 years old), so I let her walk to Lily Lake. But at that slow pace the mosquitos became very annoying. Lily lake was far as we went before heading back down. Overall hike time was 3 hours and 20 minutes.Beautiful hike yesterday to Oyster Dome. We got to the parking area around on he side of the road (Chuckanut Drive) at around 10:00, and felt relieved to find a small parking spot. There were many vehicles. The trail was busy. After reaching the summit we had a quick snack and decided to take the loop around towards Lily Lake and Max's Shortcut. So glad we DID! The trail was so quiet. We only ran into two small groups. From Max's shortcut we headed on the Larry Reed Trail. As we headed back we came across Sammish Lookout which was a great place to use the restroom and see more views. We then took Chuckanut Trail back to the car. Overall it was a beautiful day and this hike was one of my favorites. Challenging and beautiful.Great hike, even better views but a busy trail.When I looked up Oyster Dome i found the Samish Overloook one instead of this one.  So finding out the hike was 8 miles and 2000 feet high was a big surprise.  None the less I did it.Lots of people on nice days.Very narrow trailsLots of nice switchbacks to make the climb easierViews were amazing, at the dome, the ravens and hawks flew around us and gave us a bit of a showModerate hike, beautiful views, very busy trail and many people at the overlook. It was a gorgeous Saturday though, if I go again will probably be during the week.This was my second time hiking to Oyster Dome, first time since they put in the new switchback. The weather was beautiful so the trail was crowded with others who had the same great idea. Parking is along Chuckanut Dr., so we had to park a little ways down, but no big deal really. There was a wide variety of people on the trail including children and dogs, so you too can do this. We made it to the top in time to enjoy some good company (not too crowded by then), a fine picnic, and a stellar sunset before making our way back down.This hike was beautiful! Started out about 8:30 am, and there were quite a few people and cars already there!Great hike!!It was such a beautiful day for the oyster dome! The new trail towards the end is a lot easier to hike up than the steep rocky trail. I kinda miss the challenge but it was a nice new trail.The trail was great! Some parts of the trail were a tad muddy, but nothing atrocious. The trickiest part we passed looked like there were some cut down trees, light colored mud, and a team of 15 people working on cleaning it up the area and trail maintenance. Keep your eyes peeled for slugs and snails - they're everywhere!Awesome hike up to Oyster Dome. Trail was in great condition. There were a few muddy patches here and there about a mile in, but nothing too bad.We started at the Barrel Springs-B1000 Road upper trail head for the Lily Lake Trail. This route passes over Whitehall Creek twice, on a footbridge below and as a shallow ford up higher. After reaching the junction at the crest we went left and past Lily Lake and on to the Oyster Dome. For our return we back tracked until the Max's Shortcut and took it down to the connector and back over to the lower section of the Lily Lake trail. There are lots of trillium in bloom but the swamps of skunk cabbage have mostly lost their bloom and are now growing huge lustrous leaves. From the parking lot trail head on up the Lily Lake trail the bugs were really annoying. I didn't get bit but they were in the eyes, nose, mouth and ears and getting trapped under the bill of my hat. Once we were past Lily Lake the bugging ended. The view from the dome was clear with a small breeze making it comfortable for lunch. At one point we looked down on four turkey buzzards, one following the other heading south.What a great hike today in this 70 degree weather! First time for Larry and me up Oyster Dome.  We were told this was a less aggressive way up.  Still some steep, but not all the way!  We LOVED it and the view was truly worth it!Got to the trailhead at 8am and barely anyone on the trail. Coming down around 10am we encountered about 50+ people coming up. Earlier the better as is usually the case.Trail stats say hike is 6.5 miles roundtrip, but it was 7.4 miles per my distance tracker. Took roughly 1 hr. 45 min. up, 1 hr. 15 mins back down.Did my first hike to Oyster Dome via Chuckanut Drive. It was intense for sure but lovely and the view from the top was worth it. I did find out you can go the Samish Overlook and cut out a lot of the gains you get from going the Chuckanut Drive route, but I went for a great workout and that is what I got. I'll try the other route when I bring my niece or friends who are just getting into hiking.It was a great day for a hike. The last time we did Oyster Dome it was January, freezing cold, foggy most of the trail and rainy. Today was the perfect contrast. The trail was quite a bit crowded, but everyone was in great spirits. All said and done, really great conditions for a spring hike!We started from the parking strip on Chuckanut Drive at 8:30 am. Two other cars at that time. The path through the forest was cool and beautiful with a moderate climb. Trail is in excellent condition and approaching the top, work has been done since our last trip here. A new section of switchbacks have taken the place of the "gully climb" of old. Views from the top were a little misty but beautiful none the less with the Olympics showing, off in the distance.By the time we returned to the road there were more than 30 cars. Spring break. Beautiful day in the Northwest.As we should have anticipated, the trail was very busy on a sunny weekend day, but trailhead parking was much more accessible from the Samish Overlook than Chuckanut Drive. The trail was obvious and clear with a few runoff crossings and muddy areas. The packed dirt of the steep switchbacks became slippery with so much traffic and we saw several people slip. Definitely crowded with some challenging parts but the view on a clear day is worth it.PSA: they've started towing cars off the road across from the trailhead. Make sure to not cross the white line!!Other than that the hike was beautiful and in good condition.Trail is in great shape ( there are a couple small new trees down, but passable). Love the new route that the crews have done. We made it from the parking lot to the top in 43 minutes, just in time for a nice sun set. Lov this hike, good one to take kids on if you have them.I ran the loop from Samish Overlook to the Oyster Dome, then to Lily Lake, North Butte, Lizard Lake, then along the other side of Lily Lake to Max's Shortcut to the PNT/Larry Reed trail and then back to the parking lot.  I don't think there was even a blowdown. Oyster Dome trail has been revamped to switchbacks instead of steep uphill on the section leading to the Lily/Lizard junction. Not many people once I left the Oyster Dome trail, which was seriously lousy with people so I was glad to escape into the hills. I had North Butte to myself and really enjoyed the area and view. The trail there is a little vague but not bad. Lily and Lizard Lakes are fine. People i know had trouble finding Lizard Lake but it seemed rather easy to me and there are 3 different trails that lead there...  Do bring a map with you, although it seems that the signage is vastly improved from past trip reports I have seen. The North Butte junction between Lily and Lizard lakes was not signed but everything else was, some looked like new signs.Arrived at the trailhead around 10am, and was surprised to see so many cars already lining the road. Even on a weekday, this is a popular hike! We were able to find parking with minimal difficulty, and fortunately had no issues with the towing problems someone mentioned last weekend. If you're driving up from the south, there's a great place to turn around just past the trailhead. The hike itself was fairly steep, but there are some flat stretches as well. The large downed tree blocking the trail was cut by a work crew today, so it is no longer a real problem. The view from the top was spectacular, but it did start to get a bit crowded as we say and ate lunch. Definitely worth the hike, but get to the trailhead early!I thought that this was a good choice for a sunny day hike combined with checking out the Skagit tulips.   We first did our tulip viewing at Tulip Town right after they opened at 9 am.  Barely worth the 6 dollar entry fee but it's a pilgramige that we feel compelled to make every 5 years or so.  The tulips are in full bloom right now.  The trailhead for Oyster Dome is about a 15 min drive from Tulip Town. Parking on the shoulder is always a bit of a challenge but we were able to find one of the few remaining spots.  Oyster Dome is always a busy trail on a sunny day.  By early afternoon there are lots of college students from Western who make the trek after morning classes are done.  The trail is in excellent condition.  The grade is perfect for a good workout.   The tread is in excellent shape.  I love the fir scarred Old Growth Doug Firs along the first mile of trail.  Beyond the first mile is all pleasant mature second growth. There are lots of well constructed new switchbacks through the steeper sections thanks to WTA!  There's also excellent signage now that wasn't there last year. DNR was in the process of removing a large windfall that requires a small detour. Lots of well behaved off leash dogs.  There are plenty of creeks for the pooches to drink from at around the 2mi mark. The view from Oyster Dome takes in most of the San Juan Islands , Anacortes and The Olympics. It's a great place to lounge on a sunny day. Guaranteed not to be lonely there. RT 6.5 mi with 1900 ft elevation gain.It was a great hike there was a large tree on the trail that you had to go under.**TOWING ALERT** To all members of the hiking community, please be very aware when you visit this trail that there is an ongoing problem with towing cars from the side of the highway that, at best, will ruin your hike, and at worst, poses a threat to the safety of everyone hiking this trail.  We were part of a group of at least 10 other cars that were towed on Saturday. All cars were noted as 'abandoned' and 'over the fogline' on the towing reports, which were stickered to a highway sign. No clear directions were given to locate where your vehicle was towed, and the phone number to WSP went straight to voicemail Everyone had to find their towing agency online (if they had signal) or walk along the highway to the restaurant to borrow a phone book, then find transportation to their respective impound lots.  This is not about protecting the safety of people on the highway, for the simple fact that leaving at least 15-20 people stranded on the side of the highway puts everyone at risk. Some of the people we talked to had their phones and money in their cars, and so were effectively cut off from accessing help via taxi and had to get rides from strangers. How is this a good move for public safety? And leaving that many people abandoned on the side of the road, where they could easily get hit by oncoming cars or have some other accident or misfortune while trying to figure out how to get to their cars, is completely unconscionable for an agency that prides itself on protecting the public. Furthermore, no one we spoke to was fined or ticketed--only had their cars impounded, which cost upwards of $300 to retrieve (that is, if you were able to access your car that day.)  The hiking community in Washington is a strong one, and I hope people will spread the word that something very, very suspicious is happening here. I suspect that this is not about public safety, but about a select group lining their pockets. Please share this message and if you have ideas on how we can make this trail safer and more accessible for everyone, please comment.The large down tree still presents a problem, but easily ducked under. Pretty muddy in some spots but overall very accessible. Great day to be out!This was relaxing hiking in the spring. No much view unless one reaches the dome. The trail was in good shape and we saw some mountaineering maintenance to improve it. Lots of cars were parked on the road side because there is not really any parking lot or restroom. There is a small cafe nearby and one of the employees was very kind to let us use the restroom. We were really lucky to find a parking spot. We saw some low clearance vehicles have trouble to park due to the bump of the side of the road.This was our first hike in pugest sound Island reagion. It was pretty very nice hike with great view of islands at top. There is a very nice view of sea in mid of trail too. Trail was muddy in patches and one/two broken tree but nothing serious. It took us a while to find parking though so please reach early. Trailhead is just before oyster bar(Look for sign with 2647).1) Ref the description where it says "After another one-half mile, the grade steepens, and the trail becomes more rooty. Watch your steps on the ascent and descent, as the tread can be slippery. 1.5 miles from the departure of the Pacific Northwest Trail, you will come to a junction with the trail to Lily and Lizard Lakes.": The trail has now been rerouted with long switchbacks so it's much easier.  It looks like this is still ongoing in fact.  The signage at the top of the reroute (ie the junction referred to above) is slightly puzzling as it has yet to catch up, but don't worry about it too much, just follow everybody else as there are sure to be others on this popular trail. 2) Driving and parking along the road requires patience and care.  You will probably have to walk a few minutes to the T/H (at least on the weekend), just keep an eye open for cars as you do so. 3) There was only one major blowdown still to be cleared and it was not a significant obstacle.  Otherwise the trail was in good shape. 4) On the way back south we took a diversion at the first cross roads in to the small town of Edison,that we would never have known was there except that we needed a bathroom and it looked like the best closest bet.  We ended up having a good meal at the Edison Cafe.  There are other places according to Google.  So, consider supporting the local economy!  Next time up there we will sample another place.After volunteering on this trail a couple of weeks ago, I was bummed to see that a wind storm has ripped out a HUGE tree trunk and blown it into the trail. You have to get on your hands and knees essentially to climb under it. Also, parts of the trail are really muddy, which concerns me in regards to erosion. There is also a spot where pine branches have covered the trail and it's difficult to pass. The top was beautiful as always, and I was able to show my wife where we worked. Definitely still hikable, you're just going to get a little dirty.First time going and it was a great hike and a great viewFirst time hiking Oyster Dome last week and it was GORGEOUS! There were tons of people when we got there so we had to park farther down the road, on the side, but didn't have any real issues finding a place to park. Note that there are no restrooms at the trailhead!  The trail starts off kind of steep but nothing too hard. I'd say this trail as a whole is pretty moderate and is perfect for beginning hikers or seasoned hikers. This was my friend's first "real" hike, and she did it just fine! However, we were both a little sore the next day. :)  The only issues on the trail are that there are a few downed trees, which we had to climb under - it was a little bit more difficult for me because I had to lead my dog under as well. On top of that, there's a part shortly before the end of the hike where it's a straight mud swamp... Wear appropriate shoes.It was a gorgeous day and great to see the trail snow-free again. The recent windstorms have knocked down several trees on the trail, one of which required significant climbing over or under. Other trees on the trail were smaller and easy to get around. Went with a 9 year old boy who loved the trail and the muddy spots and especially the streams.Parked on the side of the road, the trail head is just across the street, just watch out for cars when opening your door. It started snowing when we got to the top, I wouldn't get too close to the edge because the snow made the rocks pretty slippery. I felt the wind moving my Corolla on the highway, got me a little nervous but made it home ok, probably wouldn't want to drive in the weather again next hike. Give our vid a thumbs up and subscribe, we do a hike just about every week, thanks!Great trip up to Oyster Dome this morning. The trail is in great shape with limited muddy spots. It was awesome seeing many senior citizens on the trail.. keep hiking! The top was beautiful with 180 degrees view over the sound. This is a must do hike. Parking is limited, so head out early. The trailhead is hard to see, but it's on the eastside of the road across from the parked cars.The Oyster Dome trail took a beating in the Wednesday wind storm and another storm is coming in this weekend (March 12-13, 2016).  The tread is in good shape but it is littered with tree debris.  There are two blowdowns which do not block but should be cleared.  Trail is dry except for one small seep.  The switchbacks up to the junction with the Lily Lake trail are sooooo wonderful!  Thank you WTA and local teams for building them. Lots of people on the trail on a Friday.  Many dogs and a few kids.Left the Seattle area around noon, hit the trailhead by 1:30 - it was a little rainy, but mostly intermittent drizzle that muted the sounds of the woods you hike through on the way up.  This trail is a burner, but definitely worth the work!  We went up from the Chuckanut trailhead, then straight up to the Oyster Dome via the marked trail; the clouds had rolled in, so visibility to the islands was limited, but you could see see the cargo ships parked in the Sound and Lummi Island.  Truly a spectacular viewpoint!  On the way back, we took the Lily Lake trail through Max's Shortcut - a windstorm did some damage very recently, and there were 6 or 7 trees down on the trail.  Only one posed a real challenge in passing, but even then, a little clever (and fun!) scrambling made it an easy trail to track back down on.  Passing the Samish Overlook on the Lou Reed trail after the Shortcut was a real treat as well!  Next time, would likely park at the Overlook and hike up to the Oyster Dome, but I'm in it for the views more than the exercise :) well worth the trip!I headed up to this old favorite hoping for no crowds and to get the trip in before the deluge as rain and wind was predicted. It turned out fine on both counts. The main thing to report is that the trail improvements to the upper section prior to the crossing of Oyster Creek appear to be done. There looks to be some fine tuning left, but WTA has put in some very fine switchbacks in place of the steep and eroded grind that's been there in the past. There have been so many improvements on this trail over the last few years that I almost kinda miss the rough and tough trail of yesteryear..........but not really! Kuddos to WTA and all those that have turned one of the nastiest trail around into something of beauty. Unfortunately, the crowds have followed progress, but go on a gray Wednesday and enjoy!Beautiful hike, the trail was in good condition.  There was mud in places but it was very minimal. Windy and cold at the top of Oyster Dome - bring your hats!   Fun hike, not to hard but a good workout.  Steep in places.  We were looking for a shorter hike that wouldn't leave us super sore during work tomorrow - this was perfect.Managed to reach the trailhead and begin my hike at 10:00am sharp. It was a real challenge as I had made the decision just the evening prior to make for the Dome. The directions are accurate here, but don't expect a big sign. I passed the strip of highway you are supposed to park on Chuckanut Drive and had to turn around. I did a work party for this trail in January and parked at Samish Overlook-- so I'm still new here.  Its quite steep early on until you reach the Overlook, making for a good workout. I recommend poles if you want to save some wear and tear on your knees. Especially on the way down, in my experience. You know, I've had a lot of experience in that category; mostly in the 70s but also in big way in the 80s. Early 90s is when Nirvana ruined my career.  At any rate, once you pass the Overlook its roughly an hour walk to the top. Two-thirds of the way I reached the portion of the trail I had helped shape and build up. Great to see a super rad rock wall and a healthy looking trail with amazing tread at a reasonable grade. If you haven't tried these parties out I HIGHLY recommend it. So far I've had to wear a ski mask for each one, as to not give away my identity. Save the last one where I donned flesh colored nylons as a lighter weather substitute.  The top is rewarding and frightening at the same time. I did see a Bald Eagle looking to kill.  The way down I opted to check out Lily Lake, which is very close. Then down the Max's Shortcut to Larry Reed. MS had massive amounts of ferns and a monster mossy boulder. LR had this developed area with about 2 million super sad frogs, chirping in unison, some type of middle finger to the commercial logging industry. Its difficult and hazy but I also want to say there was a rainbow. This route down makes it a loop, and by time I had reached the Overlook at the end of the LR portion, there were many many people gathered around a picnic table smoking reefer. One of them instantly recognized me and asked if I had any new music.. Blown away by their intrigue, I had to come up with something on the spot, so I began to hum a little while gently caressing the compound bow strapped to my leg. In that moment I recalled the Bald Eagle, and then began an a'capella version of what would become "Get Down Going Chuckanuts".  Reaching the truck by 3:00pm I was thoroughly satisfied with what I had accomplished physically as well as quite pleased with what I had pulled off creatively.I arrived at the Lily Lake trailhead on the east side of Blanchard Mountain around 8:30 AM and had boots on the trail by 9. I I followed the Lily-Lizard and Lily-Oyster trails for about 4 miles to Oyster Dome, my first stop of the day. The Lily-Lizard trail is a gentle incline up the mountain with some steeper sections. The trail near Oyster Dome becomes very steep but is short. This is my preferred way to access Oyster Dome as parking is ample and there are far fewer people hiking to Oyster Dome on this route. There was only one other group at Oyster Dome when I arrived around 10:30 but several groups quickly arrived shortly after me. The trail is in great shape all the way up save for a little mud in spots. There are trees down in places alongside the trail but nothing is actually blocking the path.  After some coffee and pictures at Oyster Dome, I followed the same route back and followed the signs to both Lily and Lizard Lakes. These trails are relatively flat and are also in good shape with hardly any obstacles. I found a nice spot for lunch near the horse campsites on the east shore of Lily Lake. My last stop of the day was Lizard Lake. This lake looks very similar to Lily Lake with several stumps and trees in the water. I observed evidence of beaver activity near the outlet of Lizard Lake. After visiting Lizard Lake, I returned to the trailhead on the Lily-Lizard trail and arrived back at my car around 2:45. All in all, this is about a 9.6 mile route according to my Green Trails map of the area and a very nice hike with lots of different scenery.Cloudy and pretty windy but still was beautiful!!It was a great day with WTA! Started off by tracking the hike in--about 3.2 miles from the parking lot and another (probably) half mile to the top. The work that's been done since last December has added some distance, but has overall made the trail FAR more accommodating and beautiful! The day was sadly cut short after just an hour and a half of work due to wind causing potentially hazardous work conditions.We hiked up to Oysterdome from Chuckanut. For the return trip, we went to Lily Lake then down Max's shortcut to Larry Reed and then back down the trail to Chuckanut. Making a loop here is easy, and highly recommended.  The trail wastes no time. There's no warmup before you start climbing. The trail was in great condition, especially the part WTA volunteers were working on. Wow! The trail looks simply amazing. The final climb up to Oyster Dome is a bit rooty and rocky, but easy enough.   It was too chilly to eat at Oyster Dome so, after enjoying the view, we headed to Lily Lake. It's more protected there and we enjoyed a nice bench by the lake while we ate. The return trip went quickly, and it was nice to be on new terrain. We stopped at the Samish Overlook to talk to the hang gliders who were getting ready to launch. (We saw one of them circling down when we were driving home. Very cool.)   When we got back, there were a couple dozen cars. There had only been about five when we started around 8:30.Although we got there pretty late in the day, still able to find parking. The switchbacks were pretty steep but the trail was in good condition. There were a few groups with portable speakers that was a bit annoying, but otherwise people were respectful. We came across volunteers restoring the trail, thank you guys! It was foggy the whole way up, and when we got the the lookout, we couldn't see anything. But 30 minutes later of eating out lunch, the clouds cleared out and the sun shined through for a beautiful view of the sound! Overall great hike!Parking: We arrived at the parking area around 9:30 am. The parking area is really just a wide stretch on the west side of the road. There were a lot of cars already but we didn't have trouble finding parking. The trail is in good condition, and we encountered the WTA volunteers working today. A big thanks to those that donate their time and expertise to maintaining the trails. Even saw a couple of kids! Way to go, guys! Its uphill pretty much the whole way; steep climbs and switchbacks. The downhill was a bit killer on the knees, but the footing was good considering how wet it was. A lot of hikers out but I wouldn't say it was crowded. There aren't many wide spots on the way up to stop and rest, just one lookout and the trail junction near the top. We didn't get much of a view, so we'll just have to do it again another day! Being close to civilization, there were some less courteous people with music playing (actually 3 different groups) on speakers, but only one was really obnoxiously loud. This was the same group that came running down the muddy trail on the way down and blew by us without so much as an "excuse me", then bounded off trail to trample through some brush and mud. Otherwise, people were nice and happy to be out. We did remember to bring a trash bag this time but only had to retrieve one abandoned dog poo bag and a few stray food wrappers.Played hooky from work to take advantage of this beautiful winter day. Made it from Seattle in just over an hour, arriving at the trail head at 1pm. Found a parking spot right across the road form the trail head, there were about 15 other cars parked along Chuckanut Drive. The trail climbs immediately up a rather long switchback. The foliage is a nice distraction along with peak-a-boo views of the sound. The trail is steep but there are enough flat areas making it very doable. With a few short breaks to catch our breath, we made it up in just under two hours. The last section of the trail to the top is really just climbing up a bunch of roots and rocks, no real trail. The view was incredible form the top with plenty of room to sit, relax and have a snack. Made it down in just under an hour and a half, with a little jogging along the way. Stopped at Chuckanut Manor for happy hour. They've got several local beers on tap and a good selection of tapas. Also, you can't beat the view.Accessed trail from Chuckanut Drive...steep! Great hike, lots of elevation gain but worth it for the view.After spending the day before working with WTA on this trail, I decided to come back and hike up the rest of the way to the Oyster Dome.  A majority of the trail is in pretty fair condition. As you get closer to the top, the section being worked by CCC is a little rough around the edges but getting better.  Once we hiked to the top the view that day was spectacular! Its a nice hike with a great pay off for your efforts.  If you park at the Samamish Overlook, you might get to enjoy someone jumping off a cliff with a parachute attached to them.We got there about 11:15 and the road was packed with cars, we had to park quite a bit away but not too bad. Popular hike so you may want to get there early.  The whole trail was fine, just a couple creeks to jump over but not a big obstacle. Looks like they closed the scramble so  there's more switch backs which isn't a problem.  Lucky that we got a few sun breaks and spectacular view. Totally worth the long drive for me coming from Renton.I really enjoy hikes that let you get out and enjoy nature without the distractions of civilization, but unfortunately that wasn't to be found today. Today was reminiscent of Lake Ingalls last fall (very crowded, parking far from the trailhead), but with the added bonus of dogs off leash, a number of groups playing music loudly from portable speakers, and some really bad non-LNT practices.  I know I sound like a curmudgeon, but please stay on the trail. There's a reason it's there. On the last switchback of the day, a group of hikers decided to cut it and scramble down the steep slope off-trail which brought a few decent sized rocks tumbling down in front of us, some of which started to continue down toward the road. Not only is it dangerous, but it's damaging to the trail and habitat around it.  I won't go into detail on the other things I noticed today, but please remember there are other hikers sharing the trail with you. We're all out there for one reason or another, but I would hope that your reason doesn't impact the experience of other hikers in a negative way. As for the trail itself, it was a bit muddy, but nothing difficult, and the views from the top are nice with clear weather. A few small creek crossings may get your feet wet without waterproof boots, but again, these are nothing challenging. A nice quick hike if you want a little bit of vertical gain. It took us a little over 2.5 hours for the entire hike going at a medium pace.Parked on the side of the road at the overlook as the parking lot was full. This was probably the muddiest hike I'd been on in a while. It was a gorgeous day though, and there were tons of people on the trail (via chuckanut/samish bay). These switchbacks are so nicely maintained!! They were quite picturesque with the sunlight streaming in through the trees. Tons of people at Oyster Dome too, but we found a secluded area with a nice view. We wanted to avoid the droves of people so we took a different trail back. Headed towards Lily Lake, which looked more like a swamp at this point, before taking Max's Shortcut and Larry Reed trail to form a loop back to the overlook where we'd parked. Wouldn't have been able to do it without the trail map, which we found near a trail junction near Lily Lake. It was much less crowded on the way down, and a pleasant day hike overall :)With the glorious sunny forecast, I figured this would be a good hike for a great view and clear skies. Did not disappoint. Got to the TH around 1:00, and not surprisingly, I had to park bout a half mile away as everyone was on this trail today. It's good to see that the signs have been replaced since the last time I visited to clearly designate where each trail went. The trail is well defined and easy to follow. Some areas were muddy, so make sure you wear shoes that can get a little wet/dirty. Got to the top around 2:30 and ate my lunch alongside ~30 others on the dome. Like I said, everyone was here today. Bring layers. I wore just a very light shirt going up but the chill at the top had me bundling up in my winter jacket and gloves. Great hike if you want a good view and don't mind the crowds.The weather called for 70% chance of showers, yet it never rained all day and we even had some blue sky. 2 miles up the trail at the first junction, we went left to begin our loop. As we got closer to the next junction wit the Oyster Dome spur trail, we came up to a trail work crew building a new trail. The old trail went straight up more steeply parallel to Oyster Creek. The new trail veers right as it goes up a couple switchbacks. But it ends up at the same spot up at the next junction. Thank you to the work crew, the new trail is very nice! At the next junction we went left and up to the Oyster Dome. It was cold and windy at the top but the view of the San Juans and Samish Sea was superb! We then headed back to the junction but continued straight and hiked up Oyster Creek toward Lily Lake. At the next junction we went left to Lily Lake for a quick side trip, but then returned to that junction to continue on. We crossed Oyster Creek and came to a big sign with a trail map. Here we hung a right and hiked down the Max's shortcut trail. At the next junction we went right to the Samish Overlook. This trail took us through a clearcut and as the trail crossed the forest road, there was a large skeleton of a large quadrupedal animal placed on a tree stump. Horses beware? The trail reached Samish Overlook for a great view south toward the Skagit Valley. Then there was another viewpoint looking west to the San Juans. It was funny to see a paved parking lot up there. But a great place to drive to for a sunset picnic. We then hiked the trail back to the junction with the lower trail and went left back to the TH.We really enjoyed this hike. Just long enough and challenging enough to be able to appreciate it. A lot of mud on the trail and a few stream crossings, but mostly avoidable. Cannot beat the view from the top.Love this hike! Great views, trail in good condition. Switch back style trail about 6 miles round trip. We went on a rainy day which made the hike eerie and mystical. Views are much better on a clear day, but hey the rain never hurt anyone.It was an easy and rewarding hike. Many people were just hiking with their t-shirts, running shoes and a bottle of water. I went here on Tuesday, the weather was exceptionally warm and sunny for February. Trail is nice and open, you will pass 5 or 6 very shallow creeks, it's hard to get your feet wet unless you fall. The view is certainly rewarding. Go check it out!For a day trip on a good weather Tuesday. The parking area was busy with a few spots even though I arrived around noon.  The trailhead entrance was north of the short rock barricade wall on the west side of the road. Not immediately obvious, the kiosk is slightly up hill from where the trail head begins.  I powered through and got to the top in about 1 1/2 hours but ran little bit of the way.  Normally it would probably take two hours to get to the top. At the top I was slightly  underwhelmed by the availability of viewing areas, which consisted of a few boulders protruding out of the trees.  Even on a Tuesday midday the amount of irritating hikers   Was more than I expected ( smoking, yelling, loud music).  But the view sure was worth it.  I thought about staying for sunset but realized I had enough time to make it down the hill and drive over to Washington Park outside of Anacortes for a waterfront west facing sunset view.  As far as trails go, this would be a good one to hike out in the dark because there were few steep sections and obstacles ( A couple small creeks you can jump over and one muddy section on a dry day ).  Running on the way out it took me about 40 minutes.so i thought to go there on Monday morning so there would be lots of parkings (since people have lives on monday mornings) and all of them for me... boy was i wrong .. there was only one spot.. so besides that, the trail was great ( although a bunch of Dog crap right on trail) yes it was a bit of a climb all the way from parking lot but 2 hours later (because were fat) we were on top. if you have extra time the trail splits and you can explore the lake as well and other areas as well,With the amount of foot traffic this place usually gets, my impression is that unless one shows up before dawn or after dusk, this would not be the place to seek solitude. The hike is quite easily accessible to say the least, and the views at the lookout on a decent weather day will draw day hikers near and far no matter day of the week. Due to last-minute planning and the need to be in Bellingham later in the evening, the pups and I resorted to this spot just so we could be done on time. There was only one parking spot open near the trailhead on Chuckanut Drive for parking. It was definitely a good time albeit late to start hiking, as most of the earlier starters were making their way back down before we reached the top. A few down trees and some muddy spots along the way, but the trail remained snow-free. Steeper section below the Lily Lake/Oyster Dome junction was a tad slippery, but overall trail was in great conditions. Three to four parties at the lookeout area when we arrived and a few more small parties showed up after us. It was generally quiet and much enjoyable than the times before. Views into Puget Sound were beautiful like always, sunny and warm the whole time. After staying a couple of hours to catch the sunset, we made our exit down the mountain in the dark. Flickr: http://bit.ly/oyster-dome-iiiLovely and sunny winter hike to Oyster Done. Lots of hikers on the trail so no solitude but what views! A bit snowy at the top. Poles helped going back down hill. Otherwise trail in good condition.Hiked up to view the Sunset at the top of Oyster Dome. The trail is fine most of the way. However, for about the last 1.5 miles of the trail there is slush/snow/mud intermittently on the trail, increasing as you continue on. I would suggest microspikes because it makes the trip absolutely simple, easy, and you don't miss a beat going up (or down). However, I think I was the only one on this trail today that wore them. I talked to a few people that turned around and didn't finish because they felt it was too slippery but there were dozens of people that continued regardless. It made for some slowgoing and slippery hiking but nothing that isn't doable for most people. If you're not going to bring any type of traction device wear shoes that have good traction. If it gets any colder (or possibly if you go up early in the morning) all of that slush is going to turn to ice and at that point you will really need the microspikes.  Also, keep in mind no matter how hot you are hiking up bring some warm layers for at the top. It is COLD. Also, if you hike up here for a sunset please, please bring a flashlight or a headlamp. There were groups of 4 and 5 people sharing one flashlight trying to navigate down in the dark and slipping and sliding. This is one of the best places to view a sunset in Bellingham but just make sure you bring stuff to keep you warm, and items to help you get down in the dark. The microspikes and headlamp allowed me to cruise past everyone on the way down.It was a great hike on Oyster Dome trail this morning. It was quite and crisp. The lower part of the trail was thawing out and muddy in places. The upper part we lost the trail a few times in the snow as people have begun making there own routes. It is quite icy and I would strongly recommend tracks for your shoes. The view from the top was amazing.Bring Yak Trax or microspikes, otherwise you will fall a lot. The trail head was packed with cars at 10am and I got up to Oyster Dome at about 1. Trail was packed with people, at times people would be passing me in both directions at the same time. The people without traction were slipping and falling bad. You absolutely need yak trax. Great hike with top quarter all ice and some great views.Bring your traction for this hike! Icy trail for the last mile and plenty of hikers were struggling with the trail conditions. Trail also difficult to follow toward the top. Great hike today!Wanted to try out my new crampons, and this was the perfect trail! Early on, I thought I was barely going to need them, but the last mile or so is where my also-cramponed friend and I were comparatively effortlessly whizzing past people who were slipping all over the place. DEFINITELY made a big difference- a few people made it to the top in plain boots or with poles, but we saw many falls and many people who turned back before the top. Multiple people commented on our footwear. Relatively clear sky at the summit with an incredible view. Warm cup of tea at the top before heading back down through a brief afternoon snowfall - huge flurries that turned the forest into a snow globe. A gorgeous hike I can't wait to try in the summer, too!Great hike today to Oyster Dome. PLEASE be prepared for an icy trail! Last mile was a bear and I saw a number of people fall on the trail. Decided to take a boot path down and ended up wandering around a bit and had to use orienteering to find my way to Oyster Dome Lane. I would suggest to stay ON the path and bring some sort of traction!Great trip up to Oyster Dome. It gets really icy and slick about halfway up so if you have microspikes or YakTraks, I definitely recommend using them. I did see several people make it up without them, but they admitted they wished they had thought ahead. Super clear, great view.Hiked it in tennis shoes but it was difficult with slippery ice once we got to the snow.Reading some of the trip reports, I was so intrigued to hike Oyster Dome.  What a great hike!  I can believe now why Oyster Dome is one of the most popular hikes in northwestern WA.  I am so glad that I hiked it today in crystal clear blue skies. I read WTA's description of this hike beforehand and it was accurate and useful.  However, if you plan to hike Oyster Dome anytime soon, I highly suggest to use microspikes and hiking poles are also useful.  The trail is covered with solid ice ( no joke!) about half way up to/from the summit.  I saw quite a few hikers slipping and falling on the icy trail today not just once, but several times.  I thought this hike would be a piece of cake, but wrong!  The steep grade continues in long switchbacks, which I thought is somewhat similar to Mt. Si trail, but there is no traffic noise like I-90 corridor.   The view from the trail about half way point and the summit are breathtaking....wow moment. Samish Bay below you, take in the grand vistas of Skagit River flats, Anacortes, Lummi Island and Orcas Island, Vancouver Island and the Olympic Mountains as far as you can see. I'd like to go back again and hike via Samish Overlook next time.  You can drive up to the DNR parking at the Samish Overlook and start your hike from there.  According to the WTA's description, Samish Overlook also serves as a launching area for paragliders and hang gliders.This was a great hike. I am not an experienced hiker so I was not fully prepared. My husband and I started at the bottom around 9AM. It is not an easy hike I would not recommend bringing your kids. We stopped at the bench which is about half way up and looked at the beautiful view. We kept going and passed the trail that takes you to the Sammish Overlook (our mission was the Oyster Dome) and we got about 1 mile past the Sammish Overlook trail and there was lots of packed snow turned into ice. We did not have the right equipment to continue hiking such as the walking sticks or the studs for bottoms of shoes. Unfortunately we had to turn around but really enjoyed what we saw. Very rewarding. Thumbs up!!Oysterdome was an icy wreck on New Years Eve. We arrived midday to a car-lined Chuckanut Drive and hit the trail with our dog Aura. Many people were coming down warning us of the icy conditions. One man had crampons with him. I giggled then and later wished I had them too. At the junction leading to Samish Overlook we continued on toward the Dome. The trail was clear of snow but the surrounding ground began to become patched with the white stuff. Then we met the mud. It looked like wet mud but it was not. It was a black-ice like surface that was impossible to walk on. After two near falls and watching others actually meet the ground, we turned back and headed for the Overlook. The trail leading to it was 95% clear of the nasty frozen mud and when we arrived at our destination we found a grassy mound of sun soaked earth overlooking the San Juans with only one other pair of hikers. We snacked, soaked, and smiled above the Samish Bay.  The Garmin read about 4.5 miles. It took 1.5 hours to get there and 45 minutes to get back.  Great hike. Be prepared to meet a lot of dogs off-leash & know it's a real butt buster :)Got there around 10AM left at 2PM, trail head is right before the Oyster Bar. Theres parking along the side of the road right next to the trail head (no snow on the road), and past the Oyster Bar.  There were not that many cars there, only encountered about five group on the way up and same going down. The first half of hte hike was snow free, then the last part was full of an icy trail. Like on of the trips said before, we spent most of our time off trail because it was too icy to walk on.  Would definitely bring poles and microspikes, other than that the view was great and the dog had no problem on the actual trail either.What a beautiful day for a hike in the Pacific Northwest! The viability was perfect. You park right on the road and start straight up! No snow before the first intersection. The first bit was steep but not too difficult. At the first intersection take a left (there are marked signs so it is impossible to get lost). The snow started shortly after the first intersection and it was slippery. Much of the hike was spent walking next to the trail because the trail itself is icy! We didn't have hiking poles but we made it with some minor slips and tumbles! There were people of all ages doing this and if you're careful the snow shouldn't be a problem. Dress with layers and you'll be set!Nothing better than a Christmas day hike. It was my first hike in this area. Followed google maps using trail coordinates from WTA site. Parking was easy. The trail started off brown and green. Nice steady climb. I was excited to start seeing some light snow coverage. I wasn't expecting to see snow at all. It was a beautiful day. I didn't see many people. A few trail runners in the beginning and only a few hikers along the way. I have never hiked in snow before so when the snow became more dense and the trail covered with packed snow, I gingerly made my way through fresher snow along the trail to keep my footing. When I got to Oyster Dome, I met some more hikers. The view was magnificent and the snow magical. I managed to do this hike in just my hiking boots, but some sort of traction device would be advisable.Snow galore. Parked in Upper Trailhead. Much easier than Chuckanut Drive, Also next time will park at Samish Overlook, easier yet. With restrooms.What a great hike! Plenty of little streams if you need to refill the oll water bottle, just the right amount of snow, around a foot or two starting at about 600 ft. I recommend poles or Yaktrax for the trip down. Trail marked very well, looks like they put up new signs recently! Thank you!Great Christmas day hike. Absolutely loved itThe day was overcast, with wind and rain forecast for the afternoon. It was relatively mild, with wind picking up and temperatures dropping on the descent. We parked at the Upper Trailhead parking area, and ascended the Lily-Lizard Trail to Max's Shortcut to the Lily-Oyster Trail, continuing up to the top. The trail was soft with wet duff, but not too muddy, and the trees were lovely in the mist and wind, with plenty of water in the creeks (but no difficulty fording). The views of the Rosario Strait from the top were excellent, extending from the Skagit River floodplain, March Point, and Fidalgo Island to the southwest, Guemes and Cypress Islands to the west,and Lummi and Orcas Islands to the North.We descended by closing the loop on the Lily-Lizard Trail. This 8.5-mile semi-loop is definitely one of our favorite local hikes!I managed to injure my foot back in late October/early November (with a bonus case of antibiotic induced damage to my Achilles tendons), and was finally feeling semi-recovered enough to get out hiking again.  Despite the lovely weather and fresh snow, I decided to stay in the lowlands to keep the adventure level low until I had confidence in my legs again.   Oyster Dome seemed like a good fit. It started out foggy, but quickly turned into a beautifully sunny day, with just a hit of fog out on the water visible by the time I made to the park bench viewpoint.  Just past there, I started to feel a little aching in my tendons, but decided to just monitor the situation and push on.  The trail was clear and mud-free.  Lots of evidence of the recent WTA work parties; previously gnarly sections of the trail showed major improvement.  Part of me will miss the mudholes and take-no-prisoners uphill slogs, but most of me will appreciate the civilized, new trail when it is done. I definitely had to slow down quite a bit in the last 3/4 mile or so to nurse my feet and tendons.  It ended up taking almost two hours to make it to the dome (that's close to my normal roundtrip time!).  The familiar views were stunning in the early winter, late day light.  I had planned to linger some at the top, but because of the additional time it took going up, I had to turn around right away and head down. The trip down was faster and easier, but the harder impacts on my foot began to irritate it.  Made it back to the car and drove home, where I nursed my by-then-swollen-and-achy feet and ankles.   Ended up with some swollen, achy ankles the next day.  Probably too soon to resume hiking, but it sure was a nice day (I'll avoid the "but it was worth it" phrase).WTA volunteers out today improving portions of the trail. Otherwise the trail is in good condition and I have been told it has improved since the summer 2015. Family hike and dog friendly. Last push towards the top to Oyster Dome is quite steep so be ready for some climbing but you can certainly rest along the way. Wear good shoes and use your hands to grasp rocks, stumps & trees. On the way back you can take a separate trail that loops around and avoids the steep incline that you took on the way up. However this will take you a bit longer to get back to the parking lot. Maybe 3+ miles to the parking lot but much easier if you are tired of the incline.  It is easier and it is called Max's shortcut. You will pass LilyLizard Lake as well. Once at Oyster Dome there are cliffs so be careful near the edge. It is beautiful and amazing! I have seen this same view from different points across from Mt. Constitution and Mount Erie. Beautiful as well and another great view that cannot be missed especially after a long hike up to see it. On the way down don't forget to spend time at the Samish Overlook.We had a "black Friday" Work Party to continue reroute work on the Oyster Dome trail. This has been an ongoing project for WTA and DNR to reroute around muddy and rooty sections on the way up to Blanchard Mountain's signature destination. We met at 8:30 at the Samish Bay overlook and started our day with the customary safety talk. Barbara Budd was our crew leader, with ACLs Jeroldine, Richard, and Carol. The day was chilly but clear, with views of Samish Bay and the San Juans. It was a good day to dress in layers. We got warmed up by a 1.5-mile hike to our work site. We worked on a section on which reroute work began in May. Instead of a dip into a muddy creek crossing, there will be a switchback with turnpikes and a rocked-in creek crossing. Our tasks were to find more mineral soil to crown turnpikes, widen trail, find sources for mineral soil, and beautify the vegetation. I worked with Richard's group on finishing a turnpike during the morning, and in the afternoon I searched for a vein of mineral soil so that we could dig a borrow pit and get more for our trail tread. The trail is in excellent shape, though there are the usual mudholes and steep, rooty sections above the areas that we have rehabilitated over the past year. After reaching a stopping point--there is still plenty left to do--we returned to the Overlook for apple cider, hot chocolate, and Carol's home-baked cookies. It was good to reconnect with volunteers and friends I had not seen for 6 months.Amazing clear day for a hike. Proud #reiemployee who got to #optoutside on Black Friday. Happy to see WTA volinteers hard at work building some beautiful switchbacks.  Trail was in good condition, but the last 1/2 mile or so really needs the switchbscks they are putting in. Steep climb and fine on a clear day like ours but I imagine it will be treacherous in rain. Busy day on the trail!My hubby and I aren't celebrating thanksgiving until Sunday, so we decided a hike would be in order!  This was our first time doing Oyster Dome.  The skies were a beautiful blue.   We started the hike about 1pm.  We were using the trail directions found on the WTA website to get us to the destination.  However, the kiosk at the beginning of the trail is very helpful.  The trail is in good condition, crunchy in a few spots from frost.  The higher up we ascended we did meet some light dusting of snow, nothing too hard to walk in.  After a lot of stops along the way (photo ops!) we made it to the top!  And what a top indeed!  We only passed one person on the way up, and as we came to the view there was only 3 other couples there.  From what I've heard, this is a very popular hike and I felt lucky to not have to contend with the crowds!  We made it down just as the sun was setting and got some more shots before we left the parking lot.  What a wonderful way to spend Thanksgiving!Left Bothell with the windshield wipers on high speed hoping to find a trail suitable for a rainy day. By the time we got to the Skagit Valley the sky turned blue and the sun was shining. Trailhead was easy to find 10.2 miles from the I-5 exit. There were a few fallen trees to hop over and a few streams with rocks in just the right places. The challenge came in the last quarter mile when the trail got so steep we wondered if we were going the right way. Just like the directions say, stick left and you can't miss it. By the time we got to the top the clouds were so thick we couldn't see the treetops below. Halfway through lunch and the clouds lifted revealing the beauty of the San Juans. Great hike!!Today we resumed the trail work on the Oyster Dome trail. It was fun to hike thru last year's projectson the way in. Our work was to start a reroute to bypass a particularly steep, eroded section. Our goal was to clear organic matter off our new route and find the bench (hard mineral soil). After removing an unsafe hanging dead tree, we could then start working on clearing the trail. One group had a large rotten stump to take out, one group worked on some rock work and stream crossings while my group started benching. We got the new trail roughly benched and ready for the fine tuning. If you hike this trail check out the new section with the little red flags, but it's not ready for feet yet, just admire our work! (and think about how much fun it would be to sign up for a work party)The trail head is just before the Oyster Bar. It is marked as PNW trail. The elevation gain flatted nicely through the whole trail, except the last half mile before the fork to Oyster Dome. Nice view on the top.Great hike on a chilly, fall day! A handful of intersecting trails make you second guess if you're on the right track, likely you are, just keep going. There is some serious elevation in parts, but views from the dome are gorgeous, even on a gray, overcast day. Don't remember now how long it was each way (thinking maybe 90 minutes), but it's long enough to make it worth the drive from Seattle, but doesn't take over the whole day. Popular trail and I can see why! We made a day trip of it. Who knew oysters and crab at Taylor just down the road would make such a perfect after-hike treat? They're still working on their liquor license, so then we headed to sample one of Bellingham's many breweries. Lots of good stuff up north!Great hike today.!  The trail is in very good condition. No real mud...just a few damp areas in the low lying segments. It's obvious that the WTA has been working here.  This was an early Friday afternoon hike.  Only a few other hikers along the way.  The ascent is steep and begins as you leave Chuckanut Drive and does not let up for a while.  With the steady rate of climb and a steady pace we were at the Dome in 1.5 hrs.  Tremendous views and the forest was radiant in the Fall sunlight.  We enjoyed the view from the "Dome" while having a picnic.  Highly recommend!This is a great, short hike to bag a quick summit. The trail is in great shape. Started about 9:30am and only met two-three groups, bu on the way down I passed about seven groups. Very quiet and the views up top are great. There's a ~20 yard section near the top that is very vertical.Great hike.....Not too many other hikers out....A few downed trees, but easily passable.....Great hike with new hiking friends! I have tried Oyster Dome before but it was early evening that time. I was trying to go up and catch the sunset, and within the first few switchbacks I knew I wouldn't be able to get a view before sunset, so I hadn't gotten to the summit before.  It's the perfect hike if you want to get a workout but don't feel like starting at 6 in the morning. We left Seattle at 9 30 and started hiking by 11 or so. The trailhead on Chuckanut Drive is easy to miss coming from south--just look for a long line of cars parked on the left-hand side of the road.  Today's hike was all about light and sound. The smoke from the biblical fires on the east side of Washington had drifted west and as we made our way up the trail we noticed two things. First, it was noon, but the light was like sunset. The sun was red coming through the smokey layer, making the trees glow. We stopped a lot to take photos.  Second, it was so quiet. Sometimes when snow falls, it mutes everything. Voices don't echo and it sounds like you're all alone. That's how it was today--I think because of the smoke. The viewpoint at the top was crowded with people but it didn't sound like it. The trail was busy, but every time a group passed us, the noise of their conversation faded away much faster than it might have on a clear day.  Everyone was friendly, thought we did have to ask one group of hikers to not cut switchbacks because of the effect it has on the trail. I also met some Hike-a-Thoner's "Lucy's Boots"! Little Oliver and I had a couple nice high-fives before heading back to the car.  After our hike we popped into Fairhaven for some iced (or not iced) coffees from Tony's and then somehow managed to not get stuck in traffic all the way to Seattle.We arrived at the shoulder parking area at about 9:00 a.m. and started hiking at 9:15.  At that time there were about maybe 5 other cars on the shoulder. The trail is in good condition.  I would divide it into three sections, the first 1.5 miles is a steady incline, the next .75 miles rolling hills with a surprising amount of descending, and the last .75 miles a steep steep push to the top.  I was a bit surprised at the loss of elevation in the middle of the hike; I was thinking the trail would be a moderate incline the whole way - not really the case! :) We passed a few groups of people on the way up, and when we started descending at about 10:45 a.m., we were encountering people coming up every few minutes.  Seemed to be a pretty busy trail. The bugs weren't bad at all, just a few mosquitoes that would pounce when we stopped for a break.  The creeks that are supposed to be flowing through the trail are dried up, unfortunately.  When we returned to our car at about noon, there were at least 12 - 15 cars parked alongside the shoulder.    We stopped in Bow on the way back to check out the famous Breadfarm and walk through the town.  It's a cute place, and fun to explore the little shops and galleries before heading back.Very dry conditions; creek beds were completely without water. Beautiful day with temps in the mid 70's - perfect for this hike. Clear skies made for great views. Love this fairly strenuous hike.This was my second time to Oyster Dome, and it turns out to be 2423432% better on a clear day! However we decided to make it interesting and take this trail instead. It starts at the Samish Overlook parking lot and in all honesty, the view from there was better than the view from Oyster Dome, in my opinion at least. However we wanted the exercise so we followed the signs for Oyster Dome and were soon on the original trail. I liked this trail better because it was half the elevation gain and felt like just the right length. WTA work parties really cleaned it up and made it easier to follow so s/o to you guys! I highly recommend this hike - very relaxing with wonderful views of the Puget Sound.This was my first hike in the state of Washington. A relatively short hike, with 3 miles to the top. Other trails connect, if you'd like to extend that hike. The ascent is gradual at first, with many switchbacks. However, near the top, the climb gets a little tougher, with a very steep incline for a considerable distance. I did have to stop and catch my breath a couple of times before continuing, but it was nothing that patience and perseverance wouldn't win over in the end. The prize at the top is very much worth the effort, with the Puget Sound Islands in view. There are also many rocks suitable for sitting and having lunch while overlooking the edge. Be careful, and please don't get too close and fall!I cannot recommend this route up to Oyster Dome enough!! Obviously Oyster Dome is one of the more popular hikes in the Bellingham Area, and I had done it before a few times following the trail from Chuckanut Drive past the Bat Caves and so on. It's really steep, and does not feel good on the body on the way down. This time though, we went to Samish Overlook (which you can hike to from the same trail on Chuckanut) and took Max's Shortcut to Lily and Lizard Lakes first. And first of all, let me say that both lakes are beautiful, secluded, annnnd have super kick ass camp areas scattered along the edge. I had never really checked them out before, but they were really cool. We then continued on the trail for a couple miles until it connected with the normal Oyster Dome trail, right after the really steep segment near the top. This route adds on almost four miles if you go to Samish overlook from the normal trail, than loop back via Lily and Lizard Lakes - but it was SOO much nicer. The elevation gain was not nearly as harsh - in fact, even though it ended up being almost a seven mile hike, we hardly felt winded (as compared to the 3 mile hell that is Oyster Dome). What's more, it was just that many more miles of gorgeous forest, what even more, it was WAAAY less crowded than the normal trail on a sunny summer afternoon.  If you are looking for the street cred to say you've hiked up Oyster Dome the steep way, I would still take the Lizard/Lily Lake route back - so much easier on the body. Anyway, yeah, it was great. Overall about a 4-5 hour trip.I did this as a solo hike and it was a great choice. It was easy to find, there were plenty of other people on the trail (but not too many that I didn't get moments alone). The view at the top was worth the hike, and the dome wasn't overly crowded.  The hike up was pretty steep and the last bit was VERY steep, but worth the effort. It was only about 3.2 miles up (one way), but quite a bit of work to get there.  I packed a picnic lunch and ate up on the dome with the view of the bay. A little chipmunk hung out and shared with me. It was very tame and even climbed up on to my leg at one point. Clouds came in quickly and the dome got cold, so I didn't get to hang out up on top as much as I would have liked to, but overall a great hike. I highly recommend it for solo female hikers, or groups. There were some moms and dads who did it with kids in packs, but it would be a tough one to do with lots of weight on your back and would be hard for smaller children to hike on their own.Since I was up in the Bellingham area, I figured I'd get out with a friend to check out Oyster Dome.  I really liked this trail overall, mostly shaded, some good incline and a good variety.  Their is a great section toward the end that is VERY steep and full of roots.  We waited to see other people coming down to double check to see if we were going the right way.  Overall, a great day on the trail, fairly crowded but not overly, and on a hot day, I would highly suggest this one.  And there are some good options for a couple other trails up there. As far as finding the trailhead, it's a little tricky since it's not marked out on the road.  Just past the Oyster Bar it is on the left side.  It starts straight up too, so be prepared and nice and stretched out for that.   The view up on the ledge is excellent, and there is plenty of room to chill out and have some lunch, mostly shaded too. You can see Vancouver Island, San Juan Islands etc. pretty well.My distance app measured this hike as just around 10 miles, not sure about the discrepancy between that and what the guide says.Those of you who have climbed Pilchuck will find this trail easier and more enjoyable.  The trail is well marked and clear of obstacles.  Really enjoyed this trail because the landscape was always changing, and there was always something interesting to see. The several streams that cross the path were all dried up, but I can imagine during the wetter months that crossing them would get your shoes wet.  The view at the top is breathtaking and worth the grueling finish to the top. The last 1/4 of the hike is quite steep and really tests your endurance.  I would recommend going earlier in the morning as there were a lot of people already at the summit at 10 am. On the way down, there were just throngs of people making the trek up.  Bugs were a non-factor today, a few mosquitoes and flies.Arrived at trailhead around 8:50 am where there were about 15 cars already parked on the side of the road. Started hike approx. 9:00 am - weather was perfect and trail condition excellent.  Elevation starts right away, gain is about 500 feet the first mile then it slowly increases until the last 1/4 mile where you really gain elevation and trail steepens to summit.  No obstacles encountered, a little stream near the top to cool off or filter water. Be careful to stay on main path because there are few side trails that are unmarked. Wanted to try the Samish overlook but wasn't sure how far it went.  Arrived at summit at 10 :10 elevation gain approx 1900.The summit has great views of the sound and it's great to have lunch atop the overlook. Only downer was a family that came just after i arrived and were yucking it up like it was the annual family bbq!  Sometimes you just got to respect the peace and solitude people and chill - leave the jokes and loudness back home or the local parks.  Ended up leaving early because it was getting crowded- on the way down there was an influx to the summit!We did this as a sunset hike and it was beautiful! I've done Oyster Dome starting from Chuckanut Drive before, and honestly this is a better way to do the trail. You skip over the boring part of the hike that just takes you up the ridge and instead start by walking horizontally along the ridge before gaining some elevation at the last mile of the Oyster Dome trail. Which, by the way is the steepest part, so keep that in mind.  That being said, aside from an expansive view of the forest below, you kind of get the same view of the water and surrounding farm lands at the top of Oyster Dome as you do from Samish Overlook, so if you really want a "big reveal", start at Chuckanut Drive. This way is a good way to save some time if you don't have a whole day though, great for a quick afternoon hike or a sunset hike because you won't have to worry about hiking back a long distance in the dark like you would if you started at Chuckanut Drive.  As far as plants and wildlife go, we saw a couple owls, and at least 10 hawks or buzzards circling in a big (for lack of a better word) "swarm", so bring some binoculars if you have them and want to get a good look at some wildlife! Not really any flowers, but the forest is fantastically green with a ton of new undergrowth.I'm baaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaack.  5.5 months from duel ruptured pateller tendons I did my first serious (well, semi-serious) hike of the year, going up to the top of Oyster Dome with my buddy and some good beer. Glorious day all around other than the traffic on the way up.  We shared the trail with maybe a couple dozen others, mostly Western Washington students it seemed, including one gentleman with a guitar. The hardest part of the hike is certainly the last .5 mile, where I'm guessing it ascends about 500 ft of the 1900 total gain.  That said, my knees made it up and down.  Ironically, going down is always harder for the ortho patient. We hit up the restaurant / lounge next to the trail after and had a cocktail.  Great views, highly recommended as a cool down.This hike takes some work, but it is really worth it! I give it 4 stars. We parked on Chuckanut Drive across the street from the trailhead for Samish Bay Connection Trail, just south of the Oyster Bar Restaurant. We spent 3 hours leisurely hiking up to the Oyster Dome and 1 hr 40 min walking steadily down with several stops for photos each way. Many young adult hikers and joggers zoomed past us. There are some new signs installed since Fall 2013. Some of the trail description at WTA is not entirely helpful. For example, we did not see a "logging road" nor did we ever have to "go right". In fact, we came to four intersections and each time we went to the left.  There is really only one section called Rock Trail that is steep and unpleasant. The creeks and drainage areas are easy to cross, maybe one inch of H20 max. Overall the trail is extremely dry but verdant. The gigantic erratics are interesting and yes there is an interpretive sign about the ice age. After reaching the high point of Oyster Dome we took the same route back to our car and 30 min - 1 hr before the sun went down there was an amazing "light show" throughout the woods in the area half way between the bench and the trail head. I'd like to do this hike again or even explore some of the intersecting routes to other destinations. My advice to William Wordsworth: "Hike and Be Thankful".Nice hike, but cloudy and windy at the top.  Trail is in really good condition but a couple of places where the trail intersects with other trails and its not super clear which way to go.  Lucky there was a lot of people  hiking it this weekend so easy to spot other hikers not sure I would have found it on my own. We spent over half an hour at the top and the fog never lifted so no pics of the top this is just the overlook. Saw a couple of dear.We hiked to Oyster Dome from Chuckanut Dr. They have whimpified the trails up here so almost anyone can home it. It use to be a die hard trail/climb that you used your hands to pull you self up tree roots and rocks. Now you can almost push a stroller up I miss the old trail. Part of it has been blocked off to the "Bat Caves" due to humans posing a threat to the bats (?). There was no view due to the weather but it was nice to get out and hike!Quick after-work hike with one of the guys from work.  Got to survey some more of the trail improvements made by WTA work parties recently, including several new switchbacks where it used to a direct uphill slog, and several reroutes around man-eating mudholes.  Super nice! This was also my final hike before commencing the massive bathroom remodel of doom.  No more hiking until the shower is ripped out, replaced, tiled and the water is back on!I had planned to get up very early to drive up to the Oyster Dome trailhead, but after a restless night, I slept a little later than I wanted to, and left Bellevue around 9:00AM. I got to the trailhead around 10-ish and noticed that there were already many cars lined up along the side of the road opposite the trailhead. Note that there is a VERY narrow shoulder and your car may have one side kind of tilting off the road down an embankment. A little precarious and definitely not ideal. This trail is in desperate need of a dedicated parking area! I started the hike at 10:15, hiking alone, and encountered a couple of small groups at the beginning. I was hiking quickly to put some distance between myself and the others, and soon found myself in solitude along the first 1/3 of the trail. Midway in, I encountered more people. The trail is steep right from the get-go, and there were wildflowers blooming along the side of the trail. I stopped for pictures here and there. Before the trail splits off for Samish Overlook on the PNT (Pacific Northwest Trail), there is a lovely viewpoint with a bench. Great scene of the San Juans after a lot of climbing is just a preview of what awaits at the top of Oyster Dome. Keep going, then stay on the Oyster Dome (Samish Bay Trail). If you want an easier, shorter hike, turn right at the split and follow the PNT up to Samish Overlook.  The trail is in very good condition until about the last 1/2 mile or so, when it just gets BAD. I encountered a couple of WTA work parties just before this section - THANK YOU to the volunteers!!!. The last section is not for those who aren't already in good hiking shape. Trust me on this. It is SLOW going to the top - lots of roots, rocks, and a very steep almost 90 degree incline. It's not pretty. Once you make it up this grueling section, you'll see a sign for the Lily Lake/Lizard Lake trail branching off to the right. I ended up going to Lily Lake on my way back down - it's a nice flat trail to a pretty, quiet lake. If you need a respite from the weekend hordes, do this one on your way back for some peace and quiet. The top of Oyster Dome is a smaller area than I expected but the view from up there is spectacular and was worth the onslaught at the top. It was Mother's Day and literally everyone and their mother was there! I had a hard time finding a spot to sit. A very aggressive chipmunk hopped around from person to person asking for handouts, and there was a family with very young children and a tiny dog yammering away behind me. How those small children got up that last section of trail is beyond me. I assume the dog had to have been carried. Take hiking poles with you - you'll need them on the way back down! At around 12:00-1:30 as I hurried back to my car, I passed THRONGS of people. This made the hike an unpleasant experience for me overall. I will not do this one again unless I leave my house at 5:30AM or it's a weekday. There were also LOTS of bugs and flies swarming around. I had the persistent buzz of a large fly overing around me for most of the hike at various sections, and later in the day as I came back down, many gnats and mosquitoes clustered in the sunny patches. Bring Deet, and a headnet if you have one.We met at the Samish Overlook at 8:30 am for a WTA Work Party on the Oyster Dome trail. There was a lot of trail work action on the Oyster Dome trail this weekend.  There were day work parties, and Arlen Bogaards led a BCRT that spent the weekend camping at Lily and Lizard Lakes and doing trailwork uphill from us. Today was also the last day of work on Oyster Dome until winter work parties resume later in the year. We had a very nice day and a moderate-sized work party of 10, perhaps because some volunteers were working on the BCRT. Mike Bellis was our crew leader today. We started with our safety and tool talk and then hiked 1.7 miles to our worksite. We have made quite a bit of progress over the past 6 months. A lot of new, beautiful trail surface has taken shape since December, which was clear as I walked past the trail sections we rebuilt over the past winter. We reached our worksite for the day, a reroute past a low mudspot/stream crossing. A few members of the party went uphill to help the BCRT crew with a switchback, and the rest of us worked on clearing duff, building tread, moving rocks to stabilize the outer trail surface, and arranging rocks to form a "water feature" where the trail passes over the small stream. I spent most of my time removing duff, building tread surface, and assisting with rock moving. The reroute was not finished by the end of the day, but it is taking shape, and crews will resume work in a few months.  We had lunch on a rocky outcropping with a view of Samish Bay. Arlen visited a couple times during our work party. It was a somewhat busy hiking day, and many families were out for Mother's Day. At the end, we carried tools back to the overlook, enjoyed cookies and cold drinks, and said our goodbyes.This is a great hiking trail and only being better since the WTA is out in force working on it.   Looks like the trail is going to be easier in some places. Thanks WTA and volunteers! Note that parking can be limited at the trailhead.  And the is no privy.  So stop at a rest area or gas station before hitting the trail.  And go early because parking fills up fast!Myself and a friend hiked up to Oyster Dome from the bottom. WTA is making really great improvements to the trail. I am writing this entry to report vandalism near Oyster Dome Overlook. If you walk just beyond the overlook there is a viewpoint that look north toward the mountains just east of Vancouver BC. Someone chopped nearly 40 small pine trees and stacked them around 2 fire pits. They also made a beaver cut on a larger tree with a hatchet which will most likely kill the tree. Camp fires are not permitted at Oyster Dome. If you see this in the future please report to the DNR. We cleaned up the mess left behind throwing the broken and chopped logs over a nearby ledge.A lovely hike in the evening sunshine. We set off from the Chuckanut Drive trailhead around 4pm, through fern-carpeted forest, with Puget Sound glimmering in amongst the tree trunks. Little wildflowers are just starting to burst out along the trail. The last 3/4 mile to Oyster Dome has some very steep, rooty, rocky sections - we were definitely glad the trail was bone-dry, or it could have been a slippery mess. We topped out at Oyster Dome after ~80 mins of climbing, emerging from the trees to a stunning view of of the Sound and the islands. It was clear enough to see the Olympics and even Vancouver Island way out in the distance. We spent a very pleasant hour just drinking in the view and basking in the sunshine. Not a whole lot of people up there with us, even though it was such a glorious Saturday. We spotted one bald eagle riding the air currents high above the forest. On our way back, we decided to take a side trip to Lily Lake. It's a flat mile-or-so round trip that we named the "Frog-Bog Detour". The trail passes through sun-drenched swamps studded with the biggest skunk cabbages I've ever seen, and our ears were filled with the ribbiting of frogs. The lake itself is nothing special, but true to its name is covered in lily pads. We watched a beautiful black and grey heron flying up and down the length of the lake. Again, barely a soul in sight. Heading back down to the trailhead the whole forest was bathed in the golden glow of late afternoon sunshine, and we could hear the rattle of woodpeckers echoing through the trees. Total time to head back down: around 70 minutes.This is a great conditioning hike with quite a bit of uphill and a few switchbacks. The Oyster Dome trail is in good condition. Its a mostly dirt trail, with rocks and roots. We found the most challenging part of the hike to be towards the end, where you are climbing up root "steps". After that though, you reach the top of the dome. There is plenty of space at the top of the dome for people to spread out, so it doesn't feel as crowded as some of the viewpoint hikes in North Bend. It was a little hazy today, but the views were still beautiful. We saw a couple of hawks flying below in the trees, and on the way down we saw a yearling dear on the trail. A number of people on the trail had hiking poles, but we didn't use ours. Overall, the hike took us about 3 hours with a 15-minute break at the top.I did my first sunset hike on the Oyster Dome trail. A big thank you shout out to the WTA volunteers who had the trail in such great condition, I talked about it almost the whole way up!Signage was great until the last 3/4 of a mile. The trail gets a little confusing as to where you need to go but once you get to that point, it would seem that you can get to the lookout no matter which path you choose. Being up there at sunset was breathtaking. It's hard to believe we live in such a gorgeous place! The trail starts off steep right away and only has three real switchbacks which made me think it wasn't going to be such a huge climb but I was wrong! It's a killer workout for your legs! The bugs only got to be a little annoying once at the top when the sun was going down and on our way back down the trail. Great hike; will definitely do again soon!Took the day off to go to a Drs. appt. except the Drs. office was at Oyster Dome, and the Dr. was my dog. It was quite convenient really. Turns out I'm fine, thanks for asking. It was a cloudy and mildly rainy day, but we still had some views from the top, and the trail was in good shape. I'm not sure I'd hike this with my dog again; the trail is pretty steep and he is pretty bossy, and wanted me to go much faster on the way down than I could safely hike.The trip to the trailhead was about an hour, maybe 1:15 hours, from downtown Seattle. We got there around 9:30 and there was still some parking spaces - when we got back down the cars stretched for much further. It took us about 100 mins to get to the top - we made very good time - and it was well worth it! A little more than an hour to get down. The trail was super muddy at some points, but it was awesome to see WTA volunteers (thank you!!!) on the trail making it better. The trailhead is a little odd since there is no real parking lot, just on street parking on an almost steep cliff, but it's literally RIGHT after the 10 mile mark, so that's a good point to watch out for. It was chilly at the top, but worth the view and the bald eagle sighting. Great hike!Beautiful trail, but pretty popular. Bleeding hearts everywhere and a few trilliums  pepper the trail. The lookout was amazing.The work on the Oyster Dome trail keeps moving up. Several months of work parties have led to extensive reroutes and trail improvements, but that means a longer walk to the work site each time. We met for a WTA Work Party at 8:30 am at the Samish Overlook with Crew Leader Arlen Bogaards and ACL Carol. We had a safety and tool briefing, and then we had our hike to the work site on the Oyster Dome trail, about 1.5 miles from the Samish Overlook. Fortunately, it was not raining. We arrived at our worksite, where our projects included new trail bed and surface, widening and removing obstructions from existing trail surface, and resolving drainage problems. We were able to fix up a decent amount of trail in the morning, though one section needed a new rock underlayer to give it good structure to let a creek pass through it. By afternoon, the zip line came out (this is starting to become a meme) to bring mineral soil down from the hillside to the new trail sections. We saw numerous appreciative hikers over the course of the day. We broke for lunch at a rocky outcrop with a view of Samish Bay. At the end, we enjoyed cold drinks and cookies, and Carol showed off yet another recipe: cranberry bars with red and green M&Ms.We were originally headed to Skagit valley for the tulip festival, but decided to skip it altogether for the hike and we made the right choice. We were not the only ones with the idea to be out on a beautiful day.The trail was very well kept. The views from the top are amazing. The trail was manageable even with the crowds. The icing on the cake was a beautiful bald eagle that did a fly by for us as we reached the topWe love you, WTA!!! Thanks for all the fine work on the trail. The trails are well marked and the day was perfect. The weather changes suddenly so even with a favorable forecast it is a good idea to bring rain gear. A few muddy spots on the trail. Followed up with a nice side trip in the car down to Taylor Shellfish Farms. The tulips are essentially finished in the area around Mt. Vernon.Took my 9 year old daughter to Oyster Dome for the second hike of our season.  Weather was perfect, and other than a few muddy spots, the trail was in good condition.  Great to see a WTA crew making things better!We had a WTA Work Party on the Oyster Dome trail to continue reroute work from yesterday. We parked at the Samish Overlook at 8:30 to meet. Once again, the weather was rainy and windy, but things calmed so that we did not have to work in a downpour. Arlen Bogaards was the Crew Leader, with ACLs Joe and Sarah. Aussie Bites, in absence for several weeks of work parties, made a surprise snack appearance this morning! We started with a safety talk and walked 1.5 miles to our work site. We are working on a new switchback and other improvements to formerly rocky, rooty "user-built" trail. We decommissioned troubled sections and laid down a rock underlayer and a mineral soil tread surface to build a hiker trail that will withstand the Chuckanuts' high rainfall and heavy boot traffic. Our projects included cutting down cedar for use in turnpikes, chipping away at a large boulder in the trail, and putting down new tread. I dug in our borrow pit to get mineral soil and small rocks, helped run the zip line, and spent some time whacking at the boulder with the double-jack. We saw lots of hikers and their dogs, too. We stopped at 2:30 pm and carried out our tools. Trillium is in bloom, and avalanche lily is blooming in patches at the overlook. We had a mostly sunny, beautiful spring day that greeted us when we returned to the overlook, and we had cookies and cold drinks while hanggliders and paragliders launched from the overlook. Hawks and eagles soared on the thermals along with them.After a huge downpour that morning, it was a surprisingly clear day for hiking.  Ran into some WTA volunteers trying to repair washed out trails.  Saw some bushtit birds and blooming plant life.  At the top, it was a bit windy and cold.  The views were well worth the 1900 ft. climb.We met at the Samish Overlook at 8:30 am, in hail and rain, to start a Work Party on the Oyster Dome trail. Fortunately, the lousy weather didn't stay very long, and there were even a few sunbreaks over the course of the day. Our Crew Leader was Arlen Bogaards, and our ACL was Carol. We started with a tool and safety talk at the trailhead, and we hiked along the Samish Connector trail and then up Oyster Dome trail, about 1.5 miles, to our work sites.  The main project over the past few weeks has been a switchback about 1 mile below Oyster Dome. We are rerouting the switchback to make it shorter, more direct, and without a dip. Most of the group arranged rock, mined mineral soil for tread, and broke up rocks to build trail for the switchback section. Some of us went a little farther downtrail to fix up a rooty section. I went with the small group, and we used grubbing tools to dig out, chop out, and saw out roots and pieces of rotted log. We filled in the hole with rock and used mineral soil to serve as the new tread. We also decommissioned an alternate rooty footpath near our section by planting ferns and throwing duff and debris on the surface. This 12-15 foot section improvement and reroute took the 3 of us just about the entire work party.  We saw lots of hikers over the course of the day. Trillium is in full bloom. We cached our tools and headed out to enjoy drinks and cookies (Carol brough homemade ginger snaps!) at the Samish Overlook.Needed a quick hike to get out before going to class today. Unfortunately I left to late and didn't make it to the top, but the view from the first lookout is a fair substitute.Day 2 of a weekend working on Blanchard Mountain, rehabbing the Oyster Dome trail. Our crew leader was Arlen Bogaards, with ACLs Richard, Joe, and Steve. We started--as always--with a safety talk, and we hiked to the work site. We picked up where we left off yesterday.  The main project was reworking a switchback. The former switchback was a long, winding "appendix" that took hikers up, down, and finally back up. We cut out the appendix, forming a new switchback that is more direct. Most of the work party focused on that project, obtaining rock and dirt for new trail. A fe folks operated the zip line or worked in the borrow pit to get mineral soil. I worked downtrail on the section I had started yesterday. We filled in low spots with rock, knocked out berms that would keep water on the trail, and dumped buckets of mineral soil over the rocks to form new tread. At the end, we revegetated to fully decommission side routes and provide a more natural appearance. We closed the day with a walk out, carrying the tools we had cached the previous day. We were rewarded for our long tool walk with cool drinks, tasty cookies, and Discover Pass vouchers.In just a few short months, the trail to Oyster Dome has been rerouted, retreaded and rerocked. Roots have been covered, drainage has been corrected. Todays work involved installing a 'zipline' for moving soil from a place where it wasn't needed to a place where it was needed. As we worked on fixing drainage and leveling out the tread, others were filling buckets of mineral soil and sending them down on our zipline. We then dumped the soil onto the rock fill  on our new tread. More beautiful trail has been made! If you hike there, check out the fresh brown dirt, that is the new trail! If you drive to the Samish Overlook, watch out for all the logging spur  roads on your way in, we had a volunteer get a bit lost on the way in. Lots of flowering currant, and I saw the first trillium in colorbud.The Oyster Dome trail continues to be subdued. Formerly a rooty, rocky, and slippery beast, it is becoming a high-quality trail built to WTA standards. We had a WTA Work Party today to continue reroutes and removal of pesky obstacles such as roots. We met at the Samish Overlook at 8:30 am. Our Crew Leader was Arlen Bogaards, with ACLs Jon, Mike, and Richard. Rick from DNR joined us for the morning part of the party/work day. We took the Samish Connector to the main trail and then hiked up for about 1 more mile to reach the work site, some sections near a large boulder that we are improving. Projects centered around improving the tread, so we worked on mining dirt (can you say "zip line"?), grubbing out roots, improving drainages, and placing rocks in gaps. A few lucky folks got to man the zip line, but the luckiest of the few got to grub a new section into shape! I paired up with Ken to turn a messy creek crossing into a ford that will not muddy up or erode the trail. We continued downtrail, knocking a berm off the downslope (outer) edge and giving the trail an appropriate outslope. This involved digging out roots and acquiring dirt and rocks for certain spots. Arlen lended a hand, too, and by the end of the day a 40-foot section had been cleaned up. Spring is definitely coming to the Chuckanuts. I saw European black slugs and Pacific banana slugs, and the salmonberry is starting to bloom. Hikers--and dogs--were in abundance. We cached our tools at the end of the day and walked back to the overlook for cookies and cold drinks, watching paragliders take off into the thermals. Muledeer also attended this Work Party, so we had a trip reporter summit again. Her version of events is also up!After a business trip that gave me the opportunity to sneak in some hiking in America's second oldest National Park and America's newest National Park, it was goo to be back home again and work in an after-work trip to Oyster Dome. Oyster Dome has become one of my standby after work hikes, with a relatively short drive, decent mileage/elevation gain stats, and great views to boot. This time, it was a little more challenging as my work day started around 2:00am.  In San Jose.  California.  But, I was still feeling pretty spry by the time I flew back and made it home, so out I went, arriving at the trailhead at about 5:00pm. This trail has been subject to a battery of improvements recently (including a WTA work party the day after I hiked it), and the work really shows.  New (and much needed) signage has appeared, the trail has been re-routed around man-eating mudholes, and the tread has been improved.  Thanks to everyone who has laboured on these wonderful improvements!  On the downside, I was noticing a lot more light uphill in the area around the junction w/ the trail to the Samish Overlook.  After pondering a bit, I realized what was going on...the area up there had been logged.  Bummer.   Things were beggining to cloud in ahead on an incoming front, so there weren't the big sparkling views from the top, but still pretty nice.  I was a little worried about how much longer before waves of sleepiness started descending on me, so I didn't linger long at the top, plunging rapidly downward instead.  By the time I made it to the bench at the viewpoint, I was definitely feeling sleepy, my eyes drooping as I continued on.  Finally, back to the car, and then home and into bed.  'Twas A nice end to a long day.Yesterday was warm and dry so we thought we'd give Oyster Dome a try. This trail begins by parking on a road shoulder. I suspect on a busy weekend that parking would be a problem. As it was the parking was pretty full when we got back to the car. The trail is pretty steep but in pretty good shape. There were a couple of muddy spots and it gets a bit rooty toward the top.  The view from the top is fantastic and the wooded areas are just starting to bud out. Visually this would be great except the bags of dog mess left at periodic intervals along the way, and orange peels. (Please PACK IT OUT.) We met quite a few others on the trail. All together it was a great hike and no bugs yet.When we made our weekend plans mid-week, Sunday looked to be our best bet for weather - but unfortunately it was a cloudy day that threatened rain. I was more than a little disappointed, but at least the drive out along Chuckanut is beautiful! By the time we arrived at the trailhead, around 9:45 am, the side of the road was packed. It's a little scary walking along the road with hardly any shoulder and cars rushing by! Ideally this would be made safer, but I can't see how (unless maybe there was a road sign warning drivers of hikers crossing the road to access the trailhead, or a crosswalk painted on the road?). Anyway, I digress... The trail starts right off the side of the road and immediately starts climbing. The map about a hundred yards in shows the trail switchbacking up the mountain for about a mile before the first trail junction at approximately 1.9 miles, then 1.1 miles to the last junction for the last 0.25 mile spur to Oyster Dome (for a total of 3.25 miles up and 6.5 miles altogether). However, we mapped only 1.65 miles to the first junction with the PCT, where you stay to the left on the Samish Bay trail. From there it was approximately another 1.15 miles to the junction with the trail to Lily/Lizard Lakes (which is what the map described), and a steep 0.25 miles to Oyster Dome. I'm not sure if our GPS was off, or if the first section really is a quarter mile shorter than the map suggested. But hey, at least it ended up being shorter rather than longer! The hike is mostly through thick, green woods with an occasional moss-covered boulder along the trail. The air was crisp, and it surprisingly felt more like winter than our previous hikes this year, despite this being our first hike of the spring season! It was an enjoyable hike through the woods, and I marked that the trail had minor obstacles posing few problems only due to the mud. It's not difficult to jump across or find well-placed rocks to step on through the mud pits. After an hour and a half climb, we reached the rocky head of Oyster Dome. There were about 10 other hikers already there enjoying their lunch, but it's pretty easy to find a place along the rock to sit and enjoy the view. Despite the clouds, we could still see all the islands and even some definition to the Olympics. Granted, this would be much more enjoyable on a blue-sky day, but don't be discouraged if clouds are in the forecast! We brought along our binoculars and enjoyed looking at the boats in the water and the shellfish farms below. A thermos full of hot-cocoa was also very much appreciated, as it was a little windy and we cooled off quickly sitting on the cold rock. The hike down was about 15 minutes shorter; the steep sections can be hard on the knees! It started to mist on us just as we reached the car around 1:15 pm - perfect timing! Per usual, snacks and a celebratory drink awaited us in the car. And a suggestion if you're planning on doing this hike in the next month - stop by the daffodil/tulip fields in the Skagit Valley on your drive home! The daffodils were in full bloom as were several fields of tulips when we stopped by. It's definitely worth it, especially if you've never been.Last year on the Ides of March, we hiked Oyster Dome. It was a windy, rainy, and mostly miserable day. This year, we went to a WTA Work Party on Oyster Dome. Our day was better than Caesar's in 44 BCE, but it was a rainy, damp, and chilly day. Our Crew Imperator was Arlen Bogaards, with ACL Jon. We had a small group of 7 people total--could the weather have had something to do with that? We started with a safety talk and then had our 1.5 mile hike to the worksite, across the Samish Bay Connector and then up the main trail until we reached our site.  We had started a reroute of a rooty, poorly drained section yesterday by building a line of large rocks to define the outer edge of trail. We filled that section in with smaller rocks to elevate the trail surface above the roots and define a flat tread surface. We also cleared roots from a lower part of the reroute section and worked on drainages. Most of us changed tasks throughout the day, including me: I worked on gathering rocks, chopping away roots, defining drains, and clearing duff. Did I complain about the weather yet? Despite the conditions, several groups of (very appreciative) hikers passed by. I was soaked by the end of the day. Thanks to Jon for bringing a tarp to cover the backpacks! Perhaps I'll bring my rain pants next time. At the end of the Work Party, we gathered the tools that were cached yesterday, and we trudged back to the Samish Overlook where we had cookies and cold drinks.Why do we dig holes just to fill them in? An existential question plaguing mankind for many centuries. For a few brief moments today, I thought that I might derive an answer to that question.  Today's outing was a WTA Work Party on the Oyster Dome trail, one of WTA's ongoing projects in the Northwest Region. We met at the Samish Overlook on Blanchard Mountain at 8:30 am. Arlen Bogaards was the crew leader, with ACLs Jon and Terry. We had a safety and tool lecture, during which Arlen hinted that we just might answer the above-referenced question. On a more earthly level, our plan for the day was to work on reroutes being made around trouble spots on the Oyster Dome trail. Our quest for answers started with a sojourn on the Samish Connector, which took us to the Oyster Dome trial. The spirit (or perhaps habit) moved us to make a right turn uphill for a total 1.5 mile trip to our work site from 2 weeks ago. We worked on spots that needed refinement, such as elevating the tread, filling in with dirt, or adding rocks to walls.  There was also a short reroute of a rooty section, and that is where I worked. We removed duff to create an outslope, grubbed out roots, and redug the tread to create a smoother trail surface. By the end of the day, the reroute of our section was mostly complete. Some hikers came up one way and descended the other. We came along a rough-skinned newt during the course of our grubbing. We cached our tools and headed back to the Samish Overlook. We had cold drinks, cookies, and pastries as we watched hang gliders take off from the Overlook. But why do we dig holes just to fill them again? Is it just to lay down better, more water-resistant tread? Guru Arlen did not have an answer. Surely there must be a deeper meaning....Took my wife and father-in-law hiking today, our first time to Oyster Dome.  Great Day!  Parking at the trailhead is very limited as parking is along the shoulder of Chuckanut Drive.  Get there early if you want to find parking, there's probably only room for 20 or so cars near the trailhead.  The trail itself is in good shape with only a few muddy patches and three small stream crossings that won't get anyones feet wet because the water is so shallow.  Trail is completely free of blowdowns and seems to be very well maintained.  The biggest hazards will be the rocky trailbed and areas with lots of roots, but there was no scrambling required, only attention to your walking.  Let me echo the trail description here...  The trail is fairly steep in several areas and small children (under 8?) may be challenged to make it all the way unless they're real troopers.  The first 200-300 yards will give you a good idea of what to expect most of the way. My wife and FIL used trekking poles, I will too next time, if for no other reason than helping with balance and my knees on the descent.  About 1/3 of the way up, there is a nice rest area with a bench and a really good view.  If your legs and/or children are already complaining at this point, you may want to consider a nice snack and turning around here.  If you're doing OK, keep going, the view from the top is worth it!  The steepest part of the trail is in the last half mile or so.  Theres a 200 yard or so section that feels more like climbing stairs than walking on a trail.  The footing is good and there are no real fall hazards, just a good stretch of leg burning, her pumping exercise!  Don't worry, the effort is soon to be rewarded!  At the top of "the Climb", the trail splits.  Go left for Oyster Dome (about 10 more minutes, way easier than the last 20!).  Go to the right for a 1/4 mile, mostly flat side trip to Lilly Lake, a beautiful spot with campsites.  We did this trail after going to Oyster Dome and were happy we made the side trip.  It added about 40 minutes to the entire hike.  If you head directly to Oyster Dome on the left, there one more small creek crossing and a small uphill section (maybe 5-10 minutes) before you come out on the Oyster Dome promenade.  Stunning views of Anacortes, Guemes Island, and the Olympic Mountains beyond.  One word of caution if you have children with you.  Oyster Dome is beautiful but has a severe drop off the edge and IS NOT a place to let small ones run around.  If heights are not your thing, stay back from the edge a ways.  Anyway, get some pictures, eat a good snack, and enjoy the fruits of your labor to get here.  The hike down is faster, but perhaps no easier if you're prone to sore knees. :-).We hiked from the Samish Overlook up Max's Shortcut, visited Lily Lake and Oyster Dome, and took the Connector and Overlook trail back to our starting point.   The work on the Connector side of the Oyster trail is excellent. The views were great on this warm, sunny morning.What a nice day to work on trails on Blanchard Mountain--sunny sky, open views of Samish Bay and its islands, and clear sky all the way to the Olympics. We met at 8:30 am at the Samish Overlook to start our work party. Arlen Bogaards was the crew leader, with ACL Steve. Katie (Limb'r) earned a hard hat, and JhomJhym received an overdue fleece vest for 25+ work parties. After the safety and tool lecture, we headed down the Samish connector trail to the junction with the Oyster Dome trail and turned right, reaching our work site 1.5 miles from the parking area.  Our project was working on a reroute. The Oyster Dome trail is largely user-built, and many sections are rooty and prone to poor drainage. Work on the reroute began yesterday, and all of our work was related to that. Subprojects included building a rock wall, filling in low spots, bringing in dirt for tread, regrading, removing roots, replanting ferns, and breaking down a rocky outcropping. I removed a root, scraped away duff, and brought in rock and dirt for new trail surface. By the end of the day, we closed off the old section and hikers were using the reroute.  We ended the day at the Samish Overlook with treats and a surprise birthday celebration for a member of the work party.What a beautiful day for a hike!  In good weather, the views from the top are spectacular.  There were a few muddy spots on the trail, but otherwise in great condition.  Arrive early in the day for the best parking spots.   There were some folks who had parked with part of their vehicle on the road on the wrong side of the fog line.  This is very dangerous on this busy stretch of road.  Park where there is plenty of room.  Walking a few hundred extra feet is nothing compared to the hike up the trail. A big shout out to the WTA trail maintenance crew that was working on the trail!  You guys rock!  Thank you for the work you do!Decided to hike the Oyster Dome, Lily Lake, Larry Reed Trail, and the Samish Overlook loop. Started out at 7:45am from Chukanut Drive just south of the Oyster Bar Restaurant, just 2 other cars at the trailhead.  After reaching the junction on the first part of the trail I went to the left towards Oyster Dome. This part of the trail has received a lot of trail work since the last time I hiked it and the trail was in great shape avoiding the old mud holes. After a steep climb I reached the other junction and went right to Lily Lake. At Lily Lake I kept to the right and followed the trail until  connecting with the Larry Reed Trail. The Larry Reed Trail was closed for awhile in January due to logging activity but is open now. On this part of the trail you will also hike through areas of recent and current logging activity. After awhile you will reach the Samish Overlook. Continuing from the overlook you will eventually come to the first junction you came to. Turn left and you will hike to the trailhead you started from. Started running into quite a few hikers on the way back from the Samish Overlook and there were 15 cars at the trailhead when I returned. The hike took me a little over three hours, a great snow free conditioning hike in the winter.Given the great weather we have been having I wasn't surprised to see a huge crowd on the trail. Lots of well behaved pooches and some amazing little kids made it to the top.  I had a great start-of-season warm up/workout with the climb.  Trail was in good condition, well used. The fact that we were on it before March only showed up in a few patches of slush and muddy hops on the trail. Parking along the road was easy to find at about 8 AM. When we were returning in the afternoon it seemed like an unending line of parked cars though.Got to the trailhead around 11:30, it was PACKED! Had to park way down a busy road and walk to the trailhead. Wish they could do something about the parking to make it safer. Hike is challenging, and the view at the top was very rewarding. I would like to mention how many people stood really close to the edge, and almost watched a girl plummet to her death when she was trying to do yoga moves and tripped over a bag of chips. Also, please remember hiking etiquette and yield to the person walking up the mountain. Fun hike, but would suggest doing it during the week to not deal with the crowd.  http://laura-berridge.blogspot.com/2015/02/oyster-dome-cascades.htmlFor my second attempt at Oyster Dome, I decided to hike from the Lily Lake trailhead to avoid the crowds and I was not disappointed. I arrived at the trailhead around 9:30 and there were only three other cars in the upper DNR parking lot. You need a Discover Pass to park your car in this lot.  The trail to Lily Lake climbs steadily along Blanchard Mountain through beautiful forest. There are no issues with the trail to Lily Lake at this time other than a few spots of mud along the way. After about 2.5 miles of climbing, you arrive at a "T" intersection. To the left is Lily Lake and to the right is Lizard Lake. I chose to go to the left and visit Lily Lake before continuing to Oyster Dome.  After a snack at Lily Lake, I followed the Lily Lake trail to the Samish Bay Connector and Oyster Trails up to Oyster Dome. The Oyster Trail is steep and rooty but there are no significant issues with it at this time. The intersection of the Samish Bay Connector and Oyster Trail is not signed very well but I was able to find my way by following the crowds up to Oyster Dome. The "dome" is a large outcropping of rock on the side of Blanchard Mountain that provides great views out to Puget Sound and the San Juan Islands. From the Lily Lake trailhead to the Oyster Dome lookout it is roughly a 4.1 mile hike. I returned to my vehicle by following the same route I hiked up the mountain.  If you are going to Oyster Dome, I suggest this route. There are fewer crowds, ample parking in both the upper and lower DNR parking areas, and in my opinion, more scenic than the route from Chuckanut Drive.Beautiful view and day! Make sure you stay to the left at the forks and you should find Oyster Dome just fine. Trail is narrow on the steep parts and a solid climb in the beginning and the end, but it's well worth the view of the bay. Great workout and environment all around. Enjoy! :)We hiked up to Oyster Dome for a Valentine's Day picnic and sunset hike. We started out at the busy trailhead around 2:30pm and make it to the top with plenty of time for a leisurely picnic and to watch the beautiful sunset. There were lots of people on the trail but not many at the top. We used headlamps to make our way down in the dark. It was unseasonable warm and a great Valentine's treat! Visit my blog at alpinelily.comVery foggy day so no visibility at all at the top, but still a great hike. My first time on this one, and I was not expecting it to be so steep for that long, but very good practice for more difficult hikes. Trail is muddy in spots, so a little slippery as well. And little shroomies are beginning to peak up!Inspired by WTA trip reporter "Bill" who left an offering to the Powers That Be atop Mailbox Peak on the morning of the NFC Championship, which seemed to go well, we thought we'd cover the Chuckanut Range pre-Superbowl. Adding a little training weight to my pack, we left an offering to the football gods (and their disciples) of Trader Joe's 12th Man Pale Ale and Skittles atop Oyster Dome. Don't worry -- we didn't leave it on the cliff! The bucket was well tied-off to a tree, and at the bottom (hard to read in the photos) is a reminder to Pack It Out for anyone partaking. I'll head back up next week to bring down the container if someone doesn't want it as a souvenir which they're welcome to. The Skittles went fast, starting off with a couple of pint-sized Seahawks fans who were up there when we were, as did a couple of the beers. Not too many folks on the trail, though the weather did draw out more than you'd expect for a Monday. There might still be a beer or two up there, or you could bring your own offerings to refill the bucket. Otherwise, not much to report except that it was a ridiculous, glorious, sunny, 60 degree day in January which, if not a sign of the planet melting, was a lot of fun. The trail was in great shape with lots of good work done and new signs installed since the last time I was there. Just a little muddy (especially by Oyster Dome standards) and windy on top. For all the reasons to not like the NFL (and that list is long), it's hard to not find the current Seahawks team inspirational in their unwavering perseverance, attitude and general kick-assery. The game is just a game, and while I hope they take down the Patriots hard this Sunday, it's the metaphor I really appreciate. GO 'Hawks!Hiked this trail with my husband and brother-in-law and loved it!  - We parked on Chuckanut Drive (we didn't need our Discover Pass to park on the side of the road) - The trailhead is easy to find; just on the east side of the road. Pay attention to the trailhead map! We didn't, and ended up taking a side trip towards Lily Lake.- The trail is pretty steep to start off, keep the pace reasonably slow to save your breath!- There were tons of little streams once we got beyond the steep switchbacks, everything was beautiful.- The trail was very busy. We counted maybe 60 other people on the trail.- At the top, we saw a woman nearly fall over the edge (no joke) so be careful on the overlook rocks. Seriously. The view is amazing and worth the somewhat moderate effort to get up to it.  Here are a few pictures:The Oyster Dome trail is kind of like Bellingham's version of Mount Si.  It is a moderately steep forested hike to a nice view point.  It is very popular on a nice weekend day.  The trailhead is 1:25 from Bellevue. I decided to make a lollypop loop using the Pacific Northwest trail on the way up and then the Samish Trail on the way back. This makes the trip longer, but anything for a loop.  The trailhead is at mile 10 on Chuckanut Drive. There is a school bus sign next to the trail. Parking is along the very narrow shoulder. The official trail sign is a few hundred feet up the trail and it has a nice map.  The first mile traverses nice forest with some handsome fire scarred old growth trees along the way.  The rest of the hike is somewhat uninteresting 2nd and 3rd growth forest with lots of stumps with springboard notches.  At 1.6 mi I turned right on the Samish Overlook trail (Pacific NW Trail).  At 2.2 miles you come to the Samish Overlook parking lot.  The view point appears to be a hang glider port with views south to the Skagit delta and Mt Rainier in the distance.   The continuation of the PNWT is officially closed due to logging activity.  Being Sunday,I ignored the sign and continued on.  The logged area is at 2.6 mi.  Shame on DNR for allowing this logging to occur right on a popular trail. What the heck were they thinking.  It looks terrible.  It reminds me of a Reagan era debacle.  The marked Lily Lake trail is at 4.7 mi.  A short trail takes you to this pleasant but unremarkable little lake.  The unmarked turnoff for the Oyster Dome is at 5.5 miles.  The Dome viewpoint is at 5.7 mi.  There is a several hundred foot rocky cliff that affords a wide view to the southwest.  The Olympic mountains, Anacortes ,and the San Juan Islands are all visible.   I returned on the popular Samish Bay trail.  0.3 mi from the Oyster Dome turn off is the unmarked Bat Cave trail.  In 50 feet it crosses a creek and in about 0.2 mile you come to an area of jumbled boulders at the base of the Oyster Dome.  I found several shallow caves but didn't stumble on anything big enough to explore.  The boulders this time of year are very slippery and slimy.  Not good for scrambling.  It is like walking on a sheet of ice. There are some nice view up the Oyster Dome cliffs. The shorter return route on the Samish Bay trail is steep and fairly muddy in places. The loop is 9.3 mi and 2000 feet elevation gain.  The Samish Bay trail section was very crowed and there were lots of dogs.  If I did it again, I would do the loop clockwise so that I could avoid descending the Samish Bay trail in the afternoon when the throngs are ascending.  Overall a nice winter hike.  I'd give it 3/5 stars.I had a fantastic and educational hike on Sunday at Oyster Dome! The weather was warm and sunny, and the views were amazing. I haven't done many hikes with views of the Sound, so this was a fun opportunity for me.  The trail was busy since it was so sunny. There were a few people running the trail, as well as a ton of people with dogs, and it only seemed to get busier as we headed up. I'm glad we didn't start any later, even though everyone we saw on the trail was really nice. Even so, I'm used to less-populated hikes.  The hike up is pretty steady, and it sure gave me a workout. It let me know right away that winter has let me get lazy again. The views up at Oyster Dome were worth the struggle though - we could see the Olympics, some islands, Anacortes, and a beautiful sky.  When I said that the hike was educational, I was referring to our lunch visit at Oyster Dome. In my search for a spot to sit and enjoy the view, I made the stupid decision of assuming that I had traction and tried to step down to an open area. The rock was damp though, and I lost my footing and fell forward (toward the rock, thankfully) before starting to slide downwards. I shredded my fingernails as I dug into the rock (that thing makes for a great nail file), and stopped pretty quickly. Still, it was a good reminder that even though it was sunny and warm, slippery rocks can still be slippery.  In the future, I will definitely enjoy the view from a bit further back, which is where I retreated to after I was able to move. Our group had a good laugh about it later, but this hike will be one that I remember for a while because of that slip.  This is a great hike - don't let my idiocy turn you away. Lots of people were heading up in the afternoon to see what I know was a great sunset. I'd love to go back up there for that!Oyster Dome was a fun hike, but also one that is best done on a clear day so the rewarding views of Puget Sound at the top are visible. When you get to the trailhead, know that there is virtually no parking, so you have to find a place near the side of the road. The trail is steep from the start but levels out later on. The whole trail was characterized by switches in very steep climbing and flat walking area, with few switchbacks. Also note that there are multiple "small streams" to cross, some of which you have to jump across. My feet got a little wet because I didn't have proper waterproof shoes, but aside from these minor setbacks, the rest of the trail was wonderful. The last part towards the summit was VERY steep. Note: once you're done with the steepest, rocky part and come to an intersection, there are no clear signs about where to go. We took a wrong turn and ended up at Lily Lake. Make sure to turn LEFT at the fork, and you'll soon reach a final stream and then the top. If you keep walking for longer than 5 minutes, you took a wrong turn. It was super foggy and windy when we made it to the top, so we didn't stay too long. If it was a nice day, I imagine we would have stayed longer to enjoy our lunch. I'll definitely be doing this hike again -- Bellingham is beautiful.This was my 2nd time hiking Oyster Dome. The trail does get pretty steep towards the top, we had to stop often to catch our breath. But once we made it to the top the view was amazing, even with the clouds and the rain.First hike of the new year for me.  I finally decided to see why all those cars are parked along Chuckanut Drive on the south end.  Gave some directions to the trailhead to a group of kids having a quick smoke before heading out.  I was determined to beat them to the top being at least twice their age  :)  Unfortunately myself and the two guys following me took a wrong turn and ended up at Lily Lake.  But I still at least arrived at Dome at the same time as the smokers.  Gorgeous sunset.  Very windy, so much though that a gust blew my empty camera cover over the edge.  I hope to retrieve it someday, even if just to remove the trash.  Made many new friends including the TreeMusketeers with whom I hiked back down to Chuckanut.We started from the Samish overlook. First, the road. The road is in good shape, BUT there is logging going on on the road up. There are several logging spur roads, so be sure and stay on the main road, it goes up and over the hill and then drops down to the overlook. If unfamiliar with the area, a map is helpful, (Square One maps-Chuckanut Recreation Area). The trail overall is in good shape, but the streams are running high, wear waterproof boots. Note the trailwork being done about 2 miles in, just above a stream. This is part of a trail reroute being worked on by WTA volunteers. There is a switchback and a half completed, it will bypass this steep, eroded area. After this area, there are some rooty and swampy areas that are probably part of the trail agenda eventually. One thing about working on trail crews, you start to look at these messy areas and think about how it should be fixed! Oyster Dome offered some fabulous views of the Sound, Olympics and great cloud pictures. My camera just didn't do it justice. On the way back we hiked on over to Lily Lake and were going to go on to Lizard, but lost the trail past the lake, and since we were on a time constraint we didn't really mess around much looking for it. Great day and good conditioning (wake up call?) hike.Today's attempted hike to Oyster Dome is the #1 reason why I write and read trip reports on this site. From the  PNT trailhead along Chuckanut Drive, the trail is steep and muddy in spots but largely clear of snow. Just past the intersection with the Samish Bay Connection Trail, the trail changes from mostly mud to mostly compact snow and slush. I was not prepared for this type of hiking, and as a result did not make it to the Oyster Dome today. I tried to hike along the snowy trail for about 1/2 mile or so but after a couple of falls I decided to hike back to the intersection with the PNT and hike to the Samish Overlook. This trail was also snow covered and tricky to navigate in spots, but I was able to manage it a little bit better. All in all, I estimate this was about a 5.5 mile hike including the detour to the Samish Overlook and the attempt to navigate the Samish Bay Connection Trail. I estimate that the snow and compact slush on the trail starts between 1000'-1250' above sea level.  I regularly review trip reports when I am planning a hike, especially when I haven't hiked that trail. The reports about Oyster Dome did not mention any snow on the trail or any obstacles to note. I was caught unprepared but the lesson today is to recognize your limits and respect the conditions. If you are going to the Oyster Dome in the next few weeks, I strongly recommend you bring Yak-Trax and other gear that will help increase your traction in the snow.We weren't the only people to hike to Oyster Dome on the first day of 2015. I'd estimate we saw between 50 and 75 people on the trail. It was a beautiful sunny day and the temperature was somewhere between 27 and 32 degrees. Some of the trail had black ice on it and in fact a hiker in front of us on the way down slipped and broke her wrist.  The hike was a good workout, I was carrying a pretty heavy backpack as well as my heavy self so the uphill climbs got progressively more difficult but I kept going, looking forward to the view at the peak.  The view was beautiful and the rocks were pretty crowded with folks sunning themselves. No one seemed to be sweating as much as I was but that seems to be how it is these days. The hike up was 3 miles and, oddly, the hike down was also 3 miles. We started at noon and ended up at the bottom at 4:30, after the sun had gone down. I can't imagine hiking down that hill in the dark with black ice patches but there were folks heading up there while we were on our way down.  All in all, a great way to start the new year.We parked on Chuckanut Dr. and started from there. This was a tougher hike than I had remembered from 5 years ago. We had a great day for it. Slightly cloudy and not too cold. The trail is in good condition and there are signs and maps directing you where to go so that you will not get lost. We ran into a man who explained the marking on the trees. One white mark means you're on the trail, two white marks means there's a corner or switchback to follow the trail. Good to know.We first stopped at the Overlook which had an awesome view of the San Juans. We stopped here only for a few minutes for a rest and bathroom break. We then got back on the trail and headed for Oyster Dome. The trail was a little wet and muddy along the way. But not too bad, just pack some decent boots of you don't want wet socks. Make sure you follow the trail. There a couple paths along that way that could veer you off to dead ends. I'm sure if you go on one of those you will realize it.The hike is fairly easily until the last quarter to half mile. You must climb a massively steep hill that is heavily rooted. You're hiking parallel to a river, but huge elevation climbs. Once you get to the top of that follow the trail left and you have one more hill to conquer. From there you will reach the top. The view is worth it. Bring an extra jacket, gloves and headwear. We were freezing by the time we had tested and cooled down.This is an nice loop trip we took starting at the Samish Bay Overlook.  Stan Miller, my wife Jen, and I hiked the Larry Reed Trail to Max's Shortcut, to Lily Lake (a short spur), then to Oyster Dome, then back via the Samish Bay Connector trail with a spur to the Samish Bay Overlook.  According to the website listed below this is about a 6 mile loop. Please take note that logging is going to be starting next week near the Larry Reed trail.  There will be logging trucks on the access road to the Samish Bay Overlook, some closures of the road I believe, and the Larry Reed Trail will be closed for a time in January according to the DNR.   Meanwhile, for a good overview of the loop we took, please check out the following website: http://www.switmo.org/hikes/oysterdome3/oysterdome3.shtml At the beginning we encountered a Washington Trails Assn. group preparing to leave to do work on the Samish Bay Connector trail.  Arlen Bogaards gave an excellent presentation to the assembled group (perhaps a dozen or more volunteers) emphasizing that the main objective of the trail maintenance was to "do it right."  Later, as we returned from Oyster Dome we encountered the group hard at work on a steep section of trail (see photos).  Kudos to these folks for giving of their time to improve the trail conditions.  Once again it gives me concern that we need to rely on volunteers when the public should be supporting government agencies already in place to keep these trails in good condition.  I hike a lot and there is _much_ work that needs to be done. We left the parking area at about 9am.  The Larry Reed Trail and Max's Short Cut trail offer a pleasant walk of several miles through decent second growth woods.  It was foggy when we hiked it early in the morning.  At Max's Short Cut the elevation picks up, but nothing of any consequence.  The trail ultimately arrives at a three-way junction by a pond.  If your intention is to hike the short spur trail to Lily Lake (a nice spot for lunch) you will want to turn left, as you will need to do anyway to get to Oyster Dome (though you can ultimately loop around, do not continue on to the right as this is not the access to Lily Lake).  A short distance from the junction you will see a sign pointing to the short spur to Lily Lake. After your rest stop at Lily Lake return to the trail and follow it to its' junction with the Samish Bay Connector and turn right.  After a steep, but short section, you will arrive at Oyster Dome.  It was foggy when we arrived about 11 am.  We ate lunch and witnessed some of the fog lift for some marginal views.  After lunch we returned to the Samish Bay Connector trail and began descending a steep, rooty section known as The Wall.  I should remark that there are two advantages of doing this loop hike counter-clockwise from the Samish Bay Overlook:  A) Starting from the overlook eliminates a fair piece of elevation gain from Chuckanut Drive, and B) the counter-clockwise route eliminates having to climb The Wall.  Still, there was probably 1000 feet of elevation they way we did it with the various ups and downs.  A nice, but not too strenuous, workout which we completed in about 4 hours. Driving directions to the Samish Bay Overlook:  Take Exit 240 on I-5 and drive west about a mile on Lake Samish Road.  Turn left on Barrel Springs Road.  In a mile or so turn right on logging road B-1000 also marked for Blanchard Mountain trails.  Watch for the B-2000 road and turn left (again, it is signed for the trails).  Follow this to the parking area, which is paved and has clean toilets.This was a WTA Work Party to perform maintenance on the main trail to Oyster Dome. Our crew leader was Arlen Bogaards, with ACLs Richard and Mike. We parked at the Samish Bay Overlook and took the connector trail to the Oyster Dome trail, a distance of 1.1 miles. Many sections of the trail are rooty and steep and need modifications to make them more resistant to the ravages of water and erosion. We worked on two sections: 1) near a waterfall, where the trail needed low spots filled in with rock and 2) a reroute of a steep, rooty section that will incorporate two switchbacks.  I worked on the reroute. Our group filled in low sections, removed roots and stumps, and cleared duff. My project was clearing duff and attacking a large stump that lies in the way of our reroute. By the end of the day, our work was not finished, but a new section was taking shape. We had the joy of encountering many appreciative hikers during the course of our day. This was also a trip reporter summit, as Muledeer was in attendance. We had a visit from Tim Van Beek from WTA headquarters, who dropped by and kept us company during the afternoon hours. We hiked back to the overlook and enjoyed apple cider and cookies, with the backdrop of a sunset over the San Juan Islands. The trail has some muddy spots, but nothing impassable, and the road has some potholes but is OK for all vehicles.This is an addendum to the previous report with photos.  Somehow or other these did not upload with the report.This work party started from the Samish Overlook, at what looks to be a brand new TH, complete with 2 loos! If you are going to hike this I recommend starting here instead of Chuckanut DR. Another volunteer group had done extensive work on this trail since I last hiked it 2 years ago. It is beautiful trail...until you get to the point where WTA is taking over. We started a reroute today around a steep rock face that is the existing trail. We first had to move several logs that were in a big pile over and alongside the existing trail. That took until lunch. Then we started clearing duff and vegetation for the new reroute. We worked all afternoon getting the trail roughed in. It works its way above the existing trail and has a better stream crossing. Arlan has some more plans for this trail, involving a lot of rock, but for right now it is hikeable, and hikers were using it as we were finishing. You will see our handywork and if you hike Sunday, say HI to the crew! The road is not on the map. Use the Chuckanut Recreation map from Square One Maps. Stay on I 5 until exit #240 then exit onto Lake Samish Rd. Turn left onto Barrel Springs Rd. Shortly  there will be a sign for Blanchard Hill Trail System on the left and a nice gravel road. Turn here.  Stay left at a fork in 1 1/2 miles and follow it to the end.Was a nice day to hike, partly clear skies. Was a bit wet though. Could not go into the bat caves since the boulders were too slippery. I hiked from the bottom of chuckanut, to sammish overlook, then back tracked, then up to the oyster dome. According to my GPS app it was a bit over 11 miles of a hike Round trip. Also took about 4 hours total to do all of it. I went up there around 930am and got back to my car around 130pm. I recorded the whole hike with my GoPro camera, bet speed some of the footage up to cut down the time. The video is now a bit over an hour of footage rather than 4 hours long. I also noted the view points in the video itself. I enjoyed the hike for sure.Was a short, but very steep climb to a very amazing view of the Puget Sound. The switchbacks were challenging and it was the best sunset hike I've ever experienced!Fantastic hike! I was worried about clouds hampering the view when driving up but the clouds cooked off and I had a great vista in pleasant conditions for hiking. Getting there:Easy to get to from Seattle or really anywhere on I-5 - Chuckanut Drive is a very nice drive from exit 231. Parking is a little thin, having to park on the shoulder of Chuckanut Drive, but it isn't too hard to find, you might just have to walk a few hundred yards to the trailhead. The trailhead could be better marked, but as long as you know that it's just south of the Oyster Bay cafe, you can find it. The hike description says you need a Discover pass but I don't think you do - you're parking along a shoulder along with cafe patrons and I saw few cars parked with Discovers. People should have the Discover anyways but I don't think it's actually necessary here. The hike:It's a good hike with some nice steep sections that can give you a workout if you want it. Bugs weren't a problem and the trail was not too crowded - certainly less so than some of the very popular trails, and I was on a weekend.  The trail:The trail is generally good, with some iffier sections later on. The last mile has some steep parts that are very rocky/rooty - it's okay going up, since they turn into stairs, but you really have to watch your feet going down. The last 100 yards or so are pretty much unmarked - the trail just peters out into a forest with little undergrowth, and you pretty much just have to keep going and you'll get to the viewpoint. It's not really a problem but there's a bit of room for improvement. The trail is generally wide enough for people to cross or pass comfortably, and I never really had undergrowth scratch me. View:The forest is pretty thick so there isn't much of a view of the water except at a few spots. The forest is pleasant though, there's a few cool landmarks to check out like a huge ice age boulder, and the canopy lets through enough light to keep things warm and bright on a nice day. Of course, the view from the top is magnificent. One of the best coastal views you can see anywhere in Washington.  Verdict:The view from the top earns 5 stars all by itself, but the hike holds up its end of the bargain too. It's a nice hike that can give you a workout if you want it and keeps your interest up along the way. Really fantastic as a whole, I highly recommend.  When driving back, I encourage folks going south to take Bow Hill road from Chuckanut about a mile to the west and check out the town of Edison. Some great restaurants and shopping to recharge after the hike, and it's hardly out of your way. The Longhorn Saloon or Maricopa Taqueria are both very much worth it and the Breadfarm Bakery is one of the best in the state.Plenty of parking on Chuckanut. Starts off with plenty of switchbacks to get you sweating. There is a bit of climbing in the last push to the top, but nothing crazy. The view of the mountains, islands, water, and farmland is definitely worth the trip up!Had a beautiful late morning/afternoon hike. Cloudy to start the hike but once I reached Oyster Dome the clouds dissipated and I was able to enjoy the view. Tough hike near the end. Tougher than I expected but well worth the hike.I have been up this trail a couple times so far this year, and with the high country now melted out, I wasn't planning on hiking it again for a while.  Indeed, my plan for after work today was to head up to Heliotrope Ridge.  But, on the drive up, I saw the Mt. Bayer was shrouded in clouds, so I did a hasty replan and turned to Oyster Dome.  It turned out to be a good thing too, as it turns out that I forgot to pack my boots and ended up hiking in my tennis shoes!  The trail was in great condition, with no major problems.   In fact, I could be imagining things, but it looked like some work had been done and the trail had been elevated & rerouted in the area of the perennial giant man-eating mudholes about halfway up.  Awesome! It was a gorgeous day.  Not to hot, but a little hazy.  And amazingly, not to crowded.  Today was probably the fewest people I have ever seen on this trail....even less than back in March!  I even had the top to myself.  Yay!In Burlington for a soccer tournament, this hike was a great way to still get some time on the trail. We got there early and headed up in a nice open forest. The junctions get a little confusing toward the top, so do pay attention to the trail description. Panoramic view to the west of Anacortes and the San Juans at the top, really a nice treat. Zoomed down the trail, headed south on the lovely highway 11, and turned into soccer moms before you know it. If time had allowed it would have been fun to stop and partake of some of the great local food options along the way.My friend and I set off for Bellingham on Friday morning and reached the Oyster Dome trailhead at 10am. We parked on the shoulder near the Oyster Bar. The hike started off a little steep and remained a thigh killer all the way through. We only carried day packs and wore tennis shoes, which is enough. But hiking poles wouldn't have been a terrible idea considering the steep trail. I really enjoyed this hike for the view (it was a gorgeous day and we could see all the islands) and the challenge since it helped me condition a bit for The Enchantments day hike. Expect to sweat a lot!Just did the hike with my husband today! Trail was in great condition, and you can tell that the volunteers do a great job of keeping it that way. It rained the whole way down causing some slippery and muddy areas, but overall it wasn't bad at all (especially since it poured on us). It took us about 2 hours to get to the top and about 1 hour and 15 minutes to get to the bottom, and that was with a few stops along the way. There are some steep spots along the way, so be prepared for your calves to burn! It is definitely toasty up there and we ran into quite a few people, so I would definitely suggest going on a cooler day in the middle of the week. Also, try to find a day that isn't as cloudy. We had amazing views going up, but lost them on the way down due to fog and clouds.  I would definitely recommend this to anyone looking for a nice day hike!Oyster Dome through the backdoor: we drove up to the Samish Overlook and felt like cheaters for skipping the 1.8 mile climb up from Chuckanut Drive. Of course, this only avoids the "easy" climb. The section just below the junction with the Lily Lake trail is as steep as ever. Despite the recent rain, though, the trail was relatively dry. My last trip (in June of 2012) was a slog through mud and standing water. This time the creeks were low or dry and we only encountered a single muddy patch on the entire trip. Oyster Dome's views are as expansive as ever. Even on a cloudy day, it is possible to see as far as the Olympics and Vancouver Island. To make up for cutting the climb short, we took the long way back to the trailhead. From Oyster Dome, we headed over to Lily Lake, took a side trip to North Butte, and then headed back to the trailhead via Max's Shortcut and the Larry Reed Connector. This is the way to go if you enjoy solitude, as we saw only a handful of people after leaving the hordes behind at Oyster Dome. Lily Lake is a very nice place to eat lunch or just take a break from hiking. It's really just a large pond, but it's a picturesque large pond. Continuing beyond Lily Lake is a bit of a challenge. The trail disappears for a while at the campground. Look for a line pink flags to the north of the campground and the Lily-Lizard Connector will eventually reappear. We turned left and headed toward North Butte for views similar to (but less expansive than) those that could be found from Oyster Dome. This vista is probably best as a place to watch the sunset while camping at the lake. From Oyster Dome to the Samish Overlook, the Larry Reed/Max's Shortcut route is twice as long as the direct trail but nowhere near as steep. It's a forest hike with few views but that's to be expected at this elevation. A big caveat is that there appears to be a logging operation near the bottom of the Larry Reed Connector. The only effect for now is an additional road crossing but the various markers on the trees suggest that big changes are coming soon. A note on signs: the metal PNT signs are out of date and should generally be ignored in favor of a map and newer signs. The Talus Trail no longer exists. A wooden sign on Max's Shortcut that implies that you haven't yet reached the trail should also be ignored. One plus is that DNR has improved the signage at the Oyster Dome/Lily Lake junction. You can get current maps online or at the Samish Overlook. Exploring the quieter trails east of Oyster Dome turned out to be a great way to spend a cool, cloudy afternoon. Oyster Dome is scenic, Lily Lake is pleasant and most of the trails provide a surprising amount of solitude despite their proximity to I-5 and Chuckanut Drive. If you've already done Oyster Dome as an out and back hike from Chuckanut Drive, doing it as a loop from the Samish Overlook provides a nice change of pace.The trail is in relatively good condition, but would turn bad if rain were to hit it- quite a few steep slopes that could prove to be difficult when slippery. Overall, there is not much in the way of overgrown bushes or any real obstacles worth mentioning. The hike was rather pleasant as we hit it earlier in the day and escaped right as it was starting to get warm. We ended up going to the "caves" and did some rock hopping around there a bit. The area is fairly trashed however, and could use some nice people with garbage bags (I forgot mine but picked up a little bit carefully). The area that rock climbers use has a bunch of beer cans, ice packs, and other marks left by visitors. It was saddening to see it in the state it was in as it is quite the beautiful area! The streams are not flowing very well, so pack in the water you want. You could fill up a few bottles, but the water didn't look very tasty.There has been a lot of trail work done, which is a major improvement. It's a great challenging trail with a beautiful reward at top. The view from the top is superb and well worth the challenge. All the photos I've seen don't do that view justice.  The bugs are really bad. Everyone in my group sprayed bug spray on, but continued to get attacked. The bugs were the worse if we tried to take any kind of break.  Most of the wildflowers appeared to be done, but i did find a patch of Indian Pipes.There's some steep climbs up but nothing too prolonged.  Nice view at the end which would be great at sunset but was a little boring in the bright sun.  Definitely not a lot of parking for a popular hike but it's easy when you get there before everyone else.  Bug spray or a shotgun for the flies would have been nice.   Lilly Lake was an ok side trip that was very easy and quick.  One hiker walked all the way out to the center of the lake on top of the logs in you can see in the picture.First time doing this hike.  We parked at Samish Overlook.  To get here you have to go up some logging roads.  The roads are fairly well marked but the first sign turning off the asphalt was easy to miss - it is low and a little hidden by plant growth.  Road is in very good shape IMHO.  Signs are pretty good going up.   Trail pretty well marked in general, but at a few spots where there were multiple intersections it is not well marked.  In one case sign was there, but obviously had fallen off original location so leaves some questions if points right way.  Both the north and south end signs of the Lily Lizard Connector were lacking.  We ended up going the long way around instead of the connector.  On the way back we had a hard time finding the connector again, bur eventually did. Again no sign, but two large signposts gave us  clue and we eventually climbed as steep bank near a big boulder and found  it.  Anyway we had GPS and a trail map and still had trouble so be aware if your first time. Trail in good shape in general except for the signage.  Beautiful lakes and Oyster Dome was breathtaking.  Samish Bay trail is mighty steep and pretty rooty in places.  I think I would rather go up it than down to save my knees some grief.This is one of my favourite hikes to date!Starting slow on a Saturday morning, we reached the trailhead (which is indicated by a board on a tree trunk that says "Pacific NW trail") just before noon and managed to find a parking spot right opposite. The first half a mile or so of the hike was steep! The road below us dropped away really quickly and before we knew it, we were plunged into dense, green woods. The air was full of chirping birds - crows, sparrows, thrushes - and every now and then we'd have to side step a slug or a snail making its way slowly across the path. The trail more or less level-ed up for a while, gaining elevation quite slowly. About a mile and a half in was the first fork, where we turned right as indicated by the signpost. Although the path seemed to be in really good condition, we hardly ran into any fellow hikers on the way up. Two miles in and another fork, this time unmarked. We chose to go left, however, as a log seemed to be carefully blocking off the right fork. A little way beyond this the trail became more overgrown, scattered with fallen branches, and for a moment we wondered if we had gone the wrong way. However, we decided to go ahead anyway and soon after, began the final incline up to the dome. This was far steeper and longer than we expected but we hurried on as we were keen to get to the top and rest. Right at the top was yet another fork and yet another left turn! 0.3 miles more and we were at the dome. What a fantastic view of the Samish Bay and surrounding islands! And were those oyster beds on the water? Well worth the hike!Note - This page states that there is a path leading to the base of the oyster dome and the bat caves. However, we read at the trailhead that the bat caves are closed off for restoration and should not be explored.Time for another afterwork hike!  Back to Oyster Dome.  I love that I can get off work and get here within an hour! Not much to say.  Peerless day. A fair number of people on the trail for late on a weekday.  The usual mudholes were present 0.25 mile past the bench/overlook.  Great views from the top.The trail is in great shape. There is a tiny bit of mud, one small tree to step over, and a few bugs, nothing to worry about. We saw a lot of pretty little flowers and many lovely ferns. One thing that I really enjoyed was the friendly hikers we met along the way. Everyone was happy, helpful and encouraging.Oyster Dome never disappoints. It gives the best views:work ratio in the region, though I'd never backpacked it. I'd always gone up and back in the same day. A buddy and I decided to hike in around 6pm and spend the night to catch both sunset and sunrise. The sunset was awesome. Near perfect temps before the sun went down gave way to a refreshing chill. We were fogged in for sunrise, but I'm not sure there would've been much to see anyway. Not many east-facing real estate. The trail is in great shape. We hiked in via the Samish Overlook and out via Max's Shortcut. Both were clear and easy to follow.Reached the trailhead around 8:30am with only about a dozen cars in the parking lot.  The trail on the way up was fairly empty and was nice to be able to enjoy the peace and quiet, all who were coming down at that point observed great trail etiquette.  Detoured over to Lily Lake before heading up to Oyster Dome.  About halfway up there are huge mud pits that are only crossable thanks to folks who have placed large branches across to walk on.On the way down, I ran into multiple families and dogs coming up.  All dogs (on and off-leash) were well behaved.  When I reached the end around 1:30pm there were 50+ cars parked along the side of the road.Started our hike from Sammish Lookout. View from parking lot is gorgeous.Trail is well maintained. Few area pretty muddy, but take your time you can hop your way around it. Small streams of water on a few spots, but again look at surroundings and you can make your way across without getting your feet wet.Once at the top. We could see forever the view is well worth the climb. Take a light jacket/sweatshirt for the top, it is breezy and chilly. Parking was easy at the trailhead due to it being 9am on a Monday morning.The trail was in great shape with lots of evidence of trail work since my last trip here two years ago. Some muddy areas made it hard to get a footing, but the major mud holes have been fixed with elevated trails, etc. I saw Blue Jays, heard Woodpeckers, and witnessed plenty of wild flowers in bloom. Among them were wild Bleeding Hearts, Salmonberry, and Holly. The creeks were running. At the first viewpoint, the oyster beds were in full view. As it was a bluebird day, the view atop the dome was fantastic. I could see all of Anacortes, Guemes, and many of the San Juans. I chose to run back down partly because I was cold and partly because I was ready for the hike to be over. Upon my descent, I bumped into a whole pack of Baker River Hot Shots. They were carrying 45lb packs, axes, and chainsaws and they were blazing up that trail. I also ran into 3-4 other groups making their way to the top.Back at the car, in a very nice sun spot, I pulled out my yoga mat and enjoyed some deep long stretches. It was a perfect day for this hike. We were a little concerned that we would not be able to see the islands due to the weather forecast.  When we got to the top it was clear snd the views are amazing. We sat in the sun and enjoyed the view of the islands. This is is definitely a good thigh burner but totally worth it. There were a few muddy spots but other than that the trail is in great shape. CAR WAS TOWED. Beware. We came back from a wonderful hike that was perfect to kick start the 2014 season to find no car. A quick walk up to the oyster restaurant to get the phone book and track down where Petes Towing is. Long story short, If you are hiking Oyster Dome make sure your tires are not touching (evenly slightly) the white line on the shoulder. Since there was only 2 inches between my right set of tires and the drop off, I figured keeping one inch of tire on the white line would be OK. $315 to get my car back and luckily I had a friend there to take me all the way back to Burlington. The tow company said one other car was towed as well, and when we were leaving I counted 8 more cars that were parked the same or worse than I. The hike was beautiful though! This was one of those very special days when serendipity played a role.  Neither Jared nor I had explored this trail so we decided to make a day of the adventure.  We started in the little town of Edison (famous for being the home of Edward R. Murrow amongst other things) at the Bread Farm where we purchased their famous sour cherry lemon bread and goodies for the trail.  We arrived at the trail head (clearly marked by not only being mile ten on Chuckanut Drive but by being lined with dozens of cars) to find that we were parked immediately behind a carload of noisy happy hikers.  Those hikers were non-other than WTA friends - Joe Hofbeck (550 WTA volunteer days on trail), his active artist wife Dianne, and Dave and Leslie!  So our solo hike turned into a wonderful series of conversations about hiking, volunteering, advocacy, and other adventure-related topics.  All of which is to say that the three-plus miles to the top flew by!The 3.25 mile trail gains its 2000 feet quickly.  It is in fairly good condition with several damp spots that were not difficult to navigate (poles were helpful) and the steep part near the top was easier up than down but not too bad all-told.  The view from the top of Oyster Dome is remarkable!  The San Juans were spread out before us surrounded by the waters of Puget Sound in all their glory.  Absolutely lovely!  And it turns out that this is a popular spot for students at Western Washington State University in Bellingham - which explains the dozens of young people out for a day in the sun!We ended our Chuckanut adventure with a stop at nearby Taylor Shell Fish where we stocked up on muscles and oysters and reminisced about our most excellent day!About this time of year, I really become aware of the days getting longer.  It is a happy time, when you can comtemplate longer activities, later in the day (as opposed to fall, when you become aware of the days getting shorter...that is sad time).  In looking at the time, I realized that if I left work an hour early, I could get up to Oyster Dome, hike to the top, and be back to the car by sunset!  Sold!  It was a beautiful day to go hiking, and the trail was ready for it.  There was some water on the trail, and some man-eating mud holes, but compared to the joy of hiking, it was nothing to complain about.  I wasn't the only one om the trail...there were maybe eight other parties I encountered on the way.  As I got up to the junction with the side trail leading up to the top of Oyster Dome, I saw some women with some yong kids coming down.  I was pretty amazed at how young the kids were  (the youngest was probably five), but they seemed to be doing fine.   I made it to the top, took some pictures, turned around and headed down.  My hope was to get down to the bench at the overlook near sunset for some great photos. but when I got there, the aforementioned women and kiddos where hanging out at the bench, so I moved along.  Made to to the car just before sundown.Great time on the Oyster Dome trail. Saw quite a few folks out on the trail enjoying the nice weather. Typical muddy spots along this trail. I wore my trail runners which have mesh uppers and was able to keep my feet dry on the way up. I jogged down most of the way and my right foot did sink in one muddy spot. Over all the trail is in great shape. Views were good, although I wish I had an on off switch for the industrial smoke stacks in the distance.  Fun hike and although it can be somewhat steep at times I always see people of all ages on this trail. It also is one of my 10 year old's favorite hikes. He begged me to let him skip school and hike with me. I am going to have to let him someday. He raced up it for the first time when he was 8. This time I saw a young girl trucking up the trail who looked about six. -KenWe began at the Barrel Springs Rd Upper trailhead on the Lily Lake trail. It is less steep than coming up from Chuckanut Drive and a more interesting route than Max's Shortcut. There were several small water falls and streams along the way. It is also less used than the approach from Chuckanut Drive. On the way up we met two backpackers and three bikers-that was it for people until we got close to the dome.We did a bit of exploring in the area behind and above the dome and found some fascinating boulders and cliffs.  When we were about two thirds of the way up a very fine snow began that came off and on a few time but was nearly not even notable. There was a thin coating of ice on Lily lake-about enough for a mouse with ice skates.The skunk cabbage is just pushing through in the swamp near Lily Lake. In a couple weeks they should be in full bloom.The trail is in good condition throughout even with the occasional muddy areas and water. The Ides of March came, and we went to Oyster Dome. If only Caesar had gone hiking, he might have survived. Oh well, that is a counterfactual historical novel for another day.We arrived at 10:15 am with plenty of parking. We started at 10:30 am. Lots of folks were out, including a few newbies, and even a few doggies, too. Skies were overcast, and there was a little drizzle. The trail held up fairly well. It has undergone significant trailwork since our last visit, with fewer waterspots and mudholes. Thank you, turnpike builders! There is one section under active construction and rerouting. One place on the lower part of the trail has been disturbed by recent blowdowns, which will require rebuilding. For the most part, there is not much water or mud on the trail, though there are approximately 3 shallow stream crossings.We took the most direct trail up to the lookout and reached the top at 12:45 pm. We could see Orcas Island, Lummi Island, and Anacortes relatively clearly. There was no sun, but the cloud ceiling stayed high enough to leave the views undisturbed. The Olympics stayed mostly hidden, though. The wind was gusting and howling rather inhospitably, so I retreated from the rock outcropping into the forest while I waited for my companions to finish enjoying the view.We descended to the junction with the Lily Lake trail and took a side trip. We then resumed our descent, reaching the parking area by 3:30 pm. We did pass a few groups that were still ascending while we were going down. It was a beautiful day for a hike!  Clear and sunny skies.  By the time we arrived at the trailhead around 12:45pm, the parking was full (about 15 cars lined up along the road).  It was a bit of a late start for the hike, but nonetheless we were ready to go!  I used the app called "My Tracks" to track our time/distance/speed/elevation.  Times will vary based on the individual hiker, but we hiked the Oyster Dome from start to finish in just over three hours. Of course we spent a great hour at the top enjoying the view, warmth of the rocks and company of other hikers.  Total miles was 5.8 and the elevation gain was 1900 feet.  There were some areas with mud, yet it was manageable to hike around it and not sink into the mud.  A great day and would do it again! With five to ten feet of new snow in the mountains in the last week Gwen and I chose a lowland hike. The highest point is over 2000' at North Butte but the starting elevation is only 700' and the while route is with in a few miles of salt water. There was a little morning snow near Bellingham. I figured that we would be above the rain level all day. I figured correctly. Gwen's friend Carianna lives near the trailhead and she signed on the evening before. Eric was running a short race in the morning nearby and mentioned he would try to meed us along the way. I picked up Gwen on my way north and we exited I-5 at Alger and took a short detour to get Carianna. There was a little snow at her house. We headed back to Barrel Springs Road and soon were on the dirt road to the upper Lily Lake Trailhead. Some snow alongside the road but an easy enough drive. We were packed up and ready to go at 9:30 am.I did this loop back in mid November. the whole way was lined with mushrooms at that time. This time the theme as snow. Snow on the road/trail as we passed the gate and headed uphill.  I stopped at the Mt. Baker viewpoint and had exactly the non view I was expecting. It was around 30 degrees but with no wind it was not too cold. We had a little light snow falling. That continued the entire hike. After about a mile we left the road and headed up the Alternate Incline Trail. There was just enough snow to highlight the brush and trees but not enough to slow us down. Just about perfect winter conditions.Not much snow made it through the trees as we climbed up the trail in forest. There were no footprints since the recent snow fall. To problems with packed down and icy snow. We hiked up to the junction with the Pacific Northwest Trail (PNT) and turned right. In just a few minutes we arrived at Lizard Lake. The lake is frozen over though barely. We hiked to the middle of the lake to get photos and enjoy the view. He headed back and detoured to the head of the lake for more views. There were two tents. One head poked out and said hi. They were the first people we had seen.Rather than take the PNT around to Lily Lake we took the shorter connector trail. As I mentioned in my November report this way trail has been recently built into a real trail. The end is still not marked yet. Part way along the connector we took the uphill trail to North Butte. Now He had footprints in the snow. One set going up and dog prints too. The snow was a little deeper above 2000' but still no problem to hike in. We headed over to the Mt. Baker viewpoint and found the lone hiker with two dogs. The pups seemed to be enjoying the snow. He left as we arrived. Not quite the nice view I had in November. No view at all. Gwen and I made the short climb to the top of North Butte. The rocks were all snow covered and it was slick. No views, not even down to Oyster Dome. There was a little wind and we did not stay long.Next we headed on down to Lily Lake. There was a little mud as it was not cold enough to freeze the muck. At the outlet we stopped for some lunch. It was about 11:45 am. At the campsite we  were able to get out of both falling snow and a little wind. After a few minutes I was ready to either put on my puffy layer or get moving. We started moving. On the short trail to the next junction we passed a beaver dam. The DNR folks took it out several years ago. It's back. We stopped at the junction to figure whether to head down or go over to Oyster Dome. There would be no views and a slick trail where many boots would have packed down the thins snow cover. Oh, what the heck. We headed for the dome. After seeing a skunk cabbage last week I looked carefully in the big skunk cabbage swamp along the trail. Lots of snow but no yellow showing yet. We soon met a group of four hikers heading in the opposite direction. Still not crowded.The trail descends gently and meets up with the very popular trail that comes up from Chuckanut Drive. As expected a few tracks suddenly became a whole lot of tracks. We dropped down to cross the creek and then began the short but steep climb to Oyster Some. It was slick but we had no falls up or down. At the top there were a few hikers. Great views of clouds. Not much else. Our stay was pretty short. We did get a message from Eric that he was coming up the Lily Lake and Max's Shortcut trails. With some breeze it was cold at the overlook. We headed down passing several groups including one or 7 or 8 hikers. They were nearly half the people we saw all day.I like the upper Lily Lake Trail. I had only gone down via Max's Shortcut and the connector to the Lily Lake Trail on one occasion. Since Eric was coming up that way that made it twice. It was almost all downhill now. In a few open spots in the forest the snow was up to about four inches deep. deeper put still not deep enough to hinder travel. Some neat sights on this trail. There is a big overhanging rock where folks have placed sticks that seem to be holding up the rock. One pond was covered with ice and snow and almost appeared to be black and white. We soon met Eric. I have spoken with him several times at hiking socials but this was the first time we had hiked together. At the next junction we turned left and headed for the Lily Lake Trail. Most junctions on the mountain have signs. For some reason both ends of this connector trail have no signs. I'm sure lots of folks have taken wrong turns.We were passed by a mountain biker pedaling on the snowy trail. We met a group at the Lily Lake junction and were able to point them in the right directions. Now we just had a little over a mile to go. Lower down we had some bare trail in the forest.  At the bridge there was about 2+ inches of snow on the handrail. We soon left the trail for the short road walk back to the cars. It was still lightly snowing just as it had been all day. There was less snow on the car than I was expecting. We said goodbye to Eric and headed back to Carianna's home. The roads were still bare. Other than the rain most of the way home it was an easy drive.This is a favorite low hike near the lowlands. Trillium, wildflowers, and skunk cabbage in spring. Great mushrooms in the fall. Nice views from North Butte and Oyster Dome on a clear day. Snow in the winter. This was a snow day with just enough to really highlight our surroundings. Add in good company from Gwen, Carianna, and Eric and it was a fine day for a winter hike.I have posted 31 photos on my website located at: http://www.kuresman.com. Go to "Trips - 2014" on the left margin.A great winter hike!  This is a new one to me.  There are a couple of mudholes that could use some attention, but there has been some recent quality work on the trail. (Thank you!)  A couple of mountain bikers were at the dome and passed us near the top as we started our descent.  I think this is a hiker's only section of trail....No toilet! Be prepared.We wanted to take advantage of a sunny January day and hit a trail that would be snow-free.  Oyster Dome fit the bill perfectly.   We left Seattle at 7:30, and were on the trail by 9 or so.  We charged up the trail easily, passing several groups, maybe 20 people total.  On the way down, we passed many more than that, including multiple large groups.  In the morning, there were about 5 cars on the road, but coming down it was closer to 30.Weather was cold but sunny--by the time we hit the bench lookout, we were above the fog.  As always, it was windy at the top.  Trail was in good shape-muddy in a few spots (the usual places), but easy to get around.  We missed the sign telling us where to turn for the Oyster Dome look-out, but I saw where the turn-off was and wondered if it was right.  Instead, we went on for 10-15 minutes to Lily Lake, which was probably worth the detour.  Then went back, saw the view and came down.Only saw one other person and his dog on the trail this morning. The trail was in decent condition. There were a few blowdowns (maneuverable) and some debris from the recent storms. Stream crossings, however, were all good, and there weren't any problems with water on the trail. Once we got to the top, the fog started to lift and it ended up being a beautiful day.We enjoyed this hike up to the dome from chuckanut with my two school age sons. It was beautiful weather for the hike however towards the upper end of the trail there was quite a few mud holes. We made it deciding it was worth getting a little dirty for the amazing view had lunch and were back to the bottom in just under 4 hours without children the trip could be made in three :) Trail is in great shape for the most part, but expect a few muddy sections.  Trail is quite steep in places and hiking boots will work better than running shoes.The trail fork close to the dome is easy to miss.  It is in a small clearing in the trail, and is marked only with the letters 'OD' and an arrow carved into a tree.  The wrong way goes to a lake (a mistake we made).The photos are from my infrared camera.  It cuts through haze nicely.  First hike of the year 2014.  The Oyster Dome located in the Chuckanut Mountain range is a great day hike.  My hiking partner and I thought it would be a great and fairly empty hike but we were wrong.  It was busy!!!  Never the less we started off at a steady pace.  The first mile is almost an 800ft elevation gain.  The trail was wet but what do you expect in the PNW.  The fog that encompassed the bay was prevalent in the lower elevation but as we kept climbing and reached the "rest area" we noticed we were above the clouds and could not wait to get to the top. Spots on the trail were a little bit slippery.  Just needed to be careful and watch your footing.  They did work on the trail and made part of a section safer by adding switchbacks and improved the trails quite a bit.  Then we reached the infamous scramble a section of about .1 miles and a steep ascent about 500-700ft.  Once at the top the view was breathtaking.  This was a great hike to ring in the new year.I decided to go out for a day hike and got a little more than I had bargained for. It was snowing near the top of oyster dome and up to lily and lizard lakes (which was what I had planned for ) however what I did not expect was to take maxes shortcut on the way back to the oyster dome trailhead. It was all a bit confusing but everything turned out all right. There was lots of muddy spots along the trails but nothing my boots couldn't handle. All in all it was a nice hike. Some snow at the top and potential camping spots were scouted out for when the season starts up. My usual hiking buddies were busy with Turkey Day plans so I did a solo trip today. Wanting a short drive I opted for Oyster Dome. A trail I've done so many times I wouldn't try to count. I always enjoy it because of the beautiful coastal forest, wonderful views, and nice B'ham vibes. I expected to see few hikers today, but the trail was packed. Probably some of the folks I encountered were out to earn their Thanksgiving calories. However, I brought mine on my back. Since my family is mostly living out of the area, I had to have my own holiday dinner so made a fine trail side feast. I haven't had many Thanksgiving Days with such sunny weather. This trail has seen so many improvements that it's rather posh these days, and every time I hike it there's a few more improved bits. Still, I found myself missing some of the slippery rock beat up rooty trail mess of yesteryear. The views have changed as well. There used to be great views in the clear cut area before the first junction about 1 1/2 miles in, but it's pretty much over grown other than a benchy viewpoint. You've got to wait until the dome for the wowzie view. And well worth it!Snowing in the mountains. Chains required at Snoqualmie Pass. Janet and I chose a lower elevation hike. I visited Blanchard Hill and Oyster Dome in October. It as blue sky and low clouds all around. The inversion made it impossible to see anything but a layer of white below. This day was overcast but it would be a very different hike with the mountains hidden and Puget Sound visible. We started early, reaching the upper parking lot off of I-5 exit 240 at 9:10 am. There were only two vehicles in the lot. We did the loop counter clockwise, heading up the gated road to start. At the Mt. Baker viewpoint we saw only a wall of clouds. The snow level was below 2000' the day before. We saw snow on the hills driving up. Even at the high point of our trip we saw no snow at all. Most of the leaves I saw on trees in October have since fallen. Mostly bare branches now.The mushroom display has improved if that is possible. Great then, maybe even better now. We headed up the Alternate Incline Trail. The previous days snow clearly fell as rain at this elevation. Lots of water running down the trails. I ware heavier boots and had dry feet all day. Our first stop was at Lizard Lake. Still plenty full of water. Nobody camping at the campsites. We did see some young folks later that were heading to camp at one of the lakes. We took the short cut trail and then the spur up to North Butte. No views at the Mt. Baker viewpoint. From the rocky high point we had great views of the Sound and Oyster Dome. It was 39 degrees and a little chilly when a light breeze blew. Part of lunch was consumed and by 11:30 am we were on our way down. The overcast sky really brought out the green color of all the moss and there is plenty of it.We made a detour to the camping sites at the end of Lily Lake. The lake seems higher than I have seen it. The log walkway across the outlet was under water. At the junction with the trail to Oyster Dome we met a group of hikers heading to the lake. As expected we saw very few folks except near Oyster Dome. Many more mushrooms along the route from Lily Lake to Oyster Dome. The creeks that were easy to  step across just a month ago were runny high. At the junction with the trail coming up from Chuckanut Drive we began to see other hikers. Oyster Dome is seldom empty. A last climb and we reached the viewpoint. There were several groups there but nothing close to the more than two dozen on my earlier visit. The breeze was light and it was comfortable, even at 39 degrees. With a jacket on we stayed for half an hour. Nice views out except for the mountains. Last time I couldn't see the trees right below the Dome. At one point everyone left and we had the view to ourselves.At 12:55 pm we headed back. Once past the junction the route was quiet except for the backpackers I mentioned earlier. We continued on the old railroad grade beyond Lily Lake. At the next junction we headed right on the Lily Lake Trail. A great display of mushrooms along the way. We did see a couple bikes that were coming up. Not many hikers. The descent is very easy. The gentleness of the trail does add more distance. It was only 2:45 pm when we reached the car. Plenty of time to drive home before dark.The rain held off until we were on our way home. It was completely dry for the hike. This makes a fun 8+ mile hike with about 2000' of elevation gain. A good alternative when it is snowing hard in the mountains. Springtime has wildflowers and solitude so I'll likely be back in 4 or 5 months. All in all, a fun day on the trail.I have posted 27 annotated photos on my website located at: http://www.hikingnorthwest.com. Go to "Trips - 2013" on the left margin.For a November hike, Oyster Dome was lovely today. We started at Chuckanut Drive, using the directions in the trail description on this site. We went up the Chuckanut and Samish Bay trails to Oyster Dome, then took Max's Shortcut and Larry Reed back down, with a side trip to Lily Lake.The junction to Oyster Dome doesn't have a formal sign -- just "< OD | LL >" carved into a tree (for Oyster Dome and Lily Lake). Though the map I attached shows a trail between Lily and Lizard, and we didn't explore too much, it appears that the trail is just flags for now, at least on the Lily side. (Hmm, could it be a WTA project in the works?)There's a big parking lot and restroom at the "Samish Overlook" on the map, handy if you want to knock off some elevation gain/loss.The past few days had seen morning fog that lasted half the day. Saturday would be one more. With a summit hike set for Sunday I took a chance that Blanchard Hill would be high enough to get above the gloom. I headed north at 8:00 am. Exit 240 Alger off of I-5 about 15 miles south of Bellingham. A left then quickly another onto Barrell Springs Road. Half a mile later a right on a dirt road that took me to the upper Lily Lake Trailhead. 74 miles from North Seattle. By 9:15 am I was ready to go. A road grader and steamroller were at work improving the parking lot. I headed up the gated road. Some colorful leaves along the way. Some were already done and some were still hanging on.sAcross from the old gravel pit I had a view out. A thick layer of low clouds below and Mt. Baker in the clear above. A very scenic spot. I left the fog at about parking lot level. It was all blue sky above. I continued up the road to the Alternate Incline Trail. The trail is in fine shape. Higher up there were even a couple freshly cut logs. At the junction with the Pacific Northwest Trail (PNT) I took a right for the short hike to Lizard Lake. I was surprised to see water down below on the right before reaching the lake. I was even more surprised a few minutes later. I planned to continue along the lake a ways to get some photos of the lake. A new trail headed above the lake. I stayed low and the trail was quickly under water. Huh? This section of trail can be a little wet in the spring. It was far more than that. The lake level was higher than I have ever seen it. By October it should have been a big pond not a deep lake.I needed to find out what was happening. The fact that I saw several trees freshly felled with teeth marks all over them made it likely that beavers were the answer. I went back to the new trail section that roses above the water then dropped down to dry trail along the lake once again. I left the PNT on an older trail that followed right above the lake. It brought me to the  outlet where a nice big beaver dam has brought the lake level up a few feet. I could not get a good look at the dam so I followed the PNT a little farther, crossed the outlet creek, and went up the other side to the dam. Mission accomplished. No sign of the beavers out on the lake but more trees felled or soon to fall near the outlet.I headed back to the other end of the lake stopping at the campsites. Nobody stayed the night. Next it was time to take the short cut trail that heads directly to Lily Lake. It is about a half mile shorter than the PNT. The route was still a boot path on my last visit. Easy enough to follow though occasionally lost where covered by leaves. The first half near Lizard Lake is now a trail. Cut bank and real tread. The start is not marked but quickly becomes a real trail. At the junction I headed uphill towards North Butte. A short climb brought me to the butte and I headed over to the northeasterly viewpoint. Mt. Baker was in the clear and framed by big evergreen trees. To the north west I could see Puget Sound and it was completely covered by low clouds. I was in the sunshine and all directions below were under a thick cold cloud cap. I headed over to the viewpoint to the west.  I could see Oyster Dome and a sea of clouds over the sea itself.I twas so warm and sunny that I stayed for almost 45 minutes. I hated to leave. I still had a ways to go and Oyster Dome was coming up next. I back tracked down to the short cut trail and followed it over to Lily Lake. Lots of decaying skunk cabbage near the lake. I went to the lake outlet for the view up the lake. Nobody was camping at the lake. As I headed away from the lake I met two hikers. The first people I had seen all day. Total solitude for the first 2 1/2 hours. I had been seeing mushrooms all day. The trail over to Oyster Dome was especially filled with them. The junction with the Oyster Dome trail that comes up from Chuckanut Drive now has no signs. As I dropped to the creek crossing I saw a big party ahead. I passed them and saw several more groups coming down from Oyster Dome.I reached the upper viewpoint to find a dozen other folks there already. I was not at all surprised. It is a very popular trail coming up from Chcukanut. As I ate lunch more groups arrived. I counted 24 other hikers at the rocky viewpoint Several other groups were at lower viewpoints. Nothing but a sea of white below in all directions. Nothing but blue sky and sunshine above. Even with the crowds it was much better than the dark day folks were enduring just below us. Soon enough I was on the move. First I headed over to the real summit of Oyster Dome. I could see up to North Butte from there. Next I head on down. I went on back to the Lily Lake junction and continued on the PNT. At the junction with the Lower Lily Lake Trail than goes back to my parking lot I continued straight ahead on the PNT. Just a little more distance to make sure I got in a full 9 miles on the day.I retraced my route back to the lower Lily Lake Trail and headed down. The trail is gently graded for hikers, horses, and bikes. I saw hikers and bikers on my way down. The last few miles seemed to drag on. The lower part of the trail was covered with fallen leaves. I popped out on the road just a short way before the parking lot. I closed the loop, arriving at my car at 2:30 pm. I hiked a little over 9 miles gaining about 2000' in 5:30. More than an hour was spent sitting in the sunshine and more time was spent exploring the raising of Lizard Lake. I saw very few people except for the big crowds at Oyster Dome. The fog never did burn off. Most of my drive home was under the low clouds. It was dark and cold back in Seattle. I managed to avoid a dark and dreary day by climbing up into the sunshine. I very nice day indeed.I have posted 36 annotated photos on my website located at: http://www.hikingnorthwest.com. Go to "Trips - 2013" on the left margin.We started up from the Chuckanut Drive trailhead making a loop route up to the dome and down Max's Shortcut and the Larry Reed trail to the Samish Overlook and down to the Samish Bay Connection again.This got us out of the snow that has been in the higher elevations the past couple weeks and always makes for a good winter hike when the time comes. There always seems to be something primeval about the trails in the Chuckanuts-the dark forest, huge moss covered boulders, a variety of fungi, and water seeping out of rock walls along the trail.There is the seasonal amount water and mud on the trail, but nothing that can't be avoided. The temperature was in the mid fifties for a comfortable hike.We headed up to Skagit County and a hike up to the viewpoint on the Oyster Dome. Had not been up there in over ten years, so thought a return trip was in order. Our hike started from the DNR Samish Overlook trailhead which has a nice parking lot, viewpoint and restrooms. The other trailhead as described in the guide book, "Day Hiking North Cascades" is off Highway 11 (Chuckanut Drive) with only shoulder parking and no restroom. The trail we hiked is signed as "Max's Short Cut" and the "Larry Reed Trail", and are part of the PNT. The trail on Blanchard Hill starts by going south around the Samish Overlook Hill, then crosses over the B-2000 DNR road and heads up to Lily Lake. About a 1/4 mile from the road we passed DNR Timber Sale signs stapled to trees for a future timber sale. We hiked uphill through the second growth forest on a well graded trail. The area was originally logged by the Samish Bay Logging Company between 1912 and 1928. Along the way we passed a large glacial boulder left from the last ice age. We crossed several bridges as the trail switchbacks up the hillside coming to the end of one of the old logging railroad grades. The trail follows the old grade to a junction with the main r.r. grade/trail near Lily Lake. At the lake outlet we saw that beavers had chewed down several trees and had a few dams. We headed west to the junction with the trail that comes up from Chuckanut Drive and the Oyster Dome Trail goes north to the viewpoint. A section of the trail still has some old railroad ties in it. After the creek crossing the trail gets steep for a short distance. Nice view out to the San Juan Islands and Olympic Mtns. from our lunch spot.Met a few other hikers who had come up the trail from Chuckanut Drive and did not know there was another route to the Oyster Dome. One young couple had come out from New York City for a trip to Olympic National Park, but were locked out due to the U.S. government shutdown, so did this hike instead. Only saw one chipmunk looking for a handout as we ate lunch, plus three hawks flying around. On the hike back down we met two mushroom pickers, and two horse riders with a pack mule.Stats for our hike: 6 miles round trip with about 1,300' gain. To get to the Samish Overlook trailhead, get off I-5 at Exit 240 (Alger) and go west on Samish Lake road 0.4 mile and turn left on the Barrel Springs Road. Go about 0.7 mile and turn right on the gravel DNR Road signed "Blanchard Hill". Go past the lower trailhead parking lot (used mostly by horse riders) and drive up to the road junction for the "Incline Trail" and "Samish Overlook". Turn left and follow the road up to the end at the Samish Overlook. Enjoy the view and hike.I began this hike on a Thursday at 4:30pm. At least 8-10 cars were already parked across from trailhead. Road directions are accurate; trailhead easy to find. Yes, it is steep for the most part. The 7:30pm sunset with pastel hues in my photos were beautiful, but what agony getting back to my car from "The Lookout" which took 30 minutes, the last 15 min tres noir. Do not be so crazy as to do this unless you have trekking poles. Next time I'll take the RightMap, start early, and make sure I get to Oyster Dome. During the entire 3.5 hours (roughly 4.5-5 miles) I saw 10 groups of hikers and alot of tissue draped along the trail (so disrespectful/juvenile/low class/etc.) A large kiosk with detailed map is up the trail not far from the road illustrating the eventual divergence--go left for Oyster Dome or go right for The Lookout. In reality, on the trail itself when you reach this fork the sign points R toward The Lookout and L toward various lakes (eg Lily Lake), but the sign doesn't actually mention "Oyster Dome". Another hiker on the trail confirmed that the left arm did go to Oyster Dome, so I followed it for ~.75-1.0 mile. I came to a junction and decided to go back due to the lateness of day. The only signage I saw was "Sammish Connector". This section of the hike is where one might encounter stream crossings (currently dried up), and rock outcroppings in the trail, and a moist trail (only one 6in puddle). I went back to the junction and took the 0.5 mi trail up to The Lookout. The first major opening is okay, but go another 100 ft and you'll be shocked to find a park with huge parking lot, (6-7 cars that night), kiosk, bathrooms, terrace with shiny green bench, and amazing views across farmlands to the Cascades as well as Sammish Bay, islands, and strategic viewing of the sunset. Two couples were preparing charcoal grills and hauling in supplies for a picnic; a photographer was hunched over his tripod; a cyclist was in deep meditation. The smoke from the grill hung in the air along the trail below: cough, cough. Eerily, a train could be heard loud and clear. A man and his dog tore past me--a race before the curtain fell. One other car remained in the dark on Chuckanut Drive as I gratefully sped away. This was my first time hiking Oyster Dome.  Got to the trailhead around 9am and snagged the last spot in the parking area across from the trail.  Directions were simple and the trailhead is not hard to find.  The trail climbs fairly steeply right from the start, and you can see the road through the trees for the first 3/4 mile of the hike, so it's easy to gauge how quickly you're gaining elevation.  I broke out the trekking poles fairly quickly to save my legs all of the effort.  There are occasional flat or downhill areas on the hike to the top, but that just means you'll have even steeper sections to make up for the elevation you're losing.There are a couple of branches in the trail, some marked better than others.  Based on previous reports, I was looking forward to some stream crossings, but they've all dried up for the summer.  In general, the trail is quite dry, and I didn't encounter any mud pits or tricky crossings at all.The WTA trail description mentions the Amphitheater Bat Caves at the base of the dome, but this area has been closed off to the public to protect the bat habitat.  Too bad, I was looking forward to seeing these. View from the top was wonderful - there was a bit of a chilly breeze, but the sun kept it from getting too cold.  After a snack and a rest from the strenuous climb, I proceeded back down to the car - total trip time about 3-1/2 hours.First, I have to shout out: there's a map for this region! It's a great one, too: Chuckanut Recreation Area from Square One Maps (http://squareonemaps.com/). Full color, detailed, noting both distance and elevation change between points - very helpful for our group of Mountaineers.Our trip was 10.5 miles and 2350 ft elevation. We took the steep Samish Bay trail up to Oyster Dome - it almost feels like a scramble at points. The overlook was overcast and cold. With most of our elevation out of the way, we visited both Lily and Lizard Lakes. The trail between Lily and Lizard was a bit unclear, so we accidentally went partway up the North Butte spur before realizing our mistake. From the Lily Lizard trail, we took Max's Shortcut to the Samish Overlook, where the sun had come out, and got to see some paragliders taking off. Great day. Memorial Day weekend hike on a mixed but mostly dry weather day.  We hit the trail around 10:30 and there was still some parking available.   The trail is in good shape, but there were a number of large mud holes that needed to be navigated.  The creek crossings were safe and easy.  Near the top, this part of the trail has a long steep climb that is manageable, but don't get surprised by the leg burning climb.   At the top, it was much cooler than what it was lower on the trail, so we were lucky to have packed wind breakers.  After we visited Oyster Dome, we took the short side trail to Lily Lake to see an impressive beaver dam and their work in progress.  As is the usual with a trail that is mostly up hill, we were all smiles on the way down!Great hike. The trail is pretty well maintained but there are few trail markers and if you don't pay attention, you can miss the fork that leads up to the Dome. Lily Lake is a quick diversion but don't forget the bug repellant!We followed the directions to the trailhead from the WTA site and had no problem parking (we arrived around 2pm on a weekday though). The trail is in excellent condition and we saw about 12-14 other hikers throughout the afternoon who all seemed to be enjoying it as much as we were.We enjoyed the shady walk through the trees and met a few gardner snakes along the way that were enjoying the spots of sun that made it through the trees. We hiked on a clear day which afforded us lovely views from the overlooks which offered nice sunny views (don't forget sunscreen or a hat). It is a rather steep incline at the beginning but my mom had a walking stick so that helped on the way back down. Another beautiful day!  We had originally intended to take the poor man's route up to the Oyster Dome from the Samish Overlook because it was my buddy's first hike of the spring.  We found the road closed at the Blanchard Lower Trailhead.  Sign said to expect delays Mon-Thur.So we bit the bullet and drove around to Chuckanut Drive and went up that way.  Not really anything to say that hasn't been said before.  There is signage (new since last March to me, at least) that says the bat caves are closed.  The views were okay from the dome.  Don't think I'd make another special trip to come back (the first time I was up there it was in wind, clouds, and rain).Afterwards we decided to pack on some miles so we headed east towards Lily Lake.  Instead of taking Max's Shortcut as we had the first time we continued on and took the longer Lily-Lizard trail route to the Lily-Max connected, finally arriving the the empty parking lot where we'd originally intended to park, before headed down to Chuckanut Drive.Nice day.  Hot weather.  Not a lot of people on the trail.  Glad to be out of the snow.The bugs and mudholes were only on the trail within a half mile either way of Lily Lake where all the standing water is.http://www.lemarts.com/2/post/2013/05/may-06th-2013.htmlWe began at the Barrel Springs/B-1000 road at the Lily Lake trailhead. At the first junction (unmarked) we took a left on the Larry Reed trail and after 0.7 mile went right on Max's Shortcut up to Lily Lake and the Dome.The Trillium is coming out as the Skunk Cabbage is on the wane along the trail and at the lake. There were a few muddy areas and a few very shallow areas where there was water on the trail.We helped two parties out that needed directions who had gone in the wrong direction. Both problems were due the lack of signage at the top of the trail coming up from Chuckanut Drive.This is a good hike when the temperatures are in the high 70's as the forest is quite a bit cooler and made for comfortable hiking conditions.I started this hike from the Samish Lookout parking area.I find when hiking, one MUST have a sense of humor about oneself. That being said, before I left on this lightly overcast morning, I read a little excerpt about Max's shortcut. The writer and his wife mentioned findng the shortcut and that they were glad they were coming down it instead of UP. I made a mental note and YET... went up it anyway. That's where my sense of humor became necessary. Laughing at my willingness to disregard my own decision was what kept me going.While not as steep as the hades-like-branch-and-rock ladder incline near the top of the Oyster Dome, it was very steep for along ways. Once at the top however, I was glad to have cut the time off my hike. For those of you new to the area (or just new to this trail like me) if you are trying to get to the Dome, hang a sharp left when Max's Shortcut comes out at the lake. I didn't. I went merrily down the trail until I came upon some mountain bikers at the Lily/Lizard/Army trail intersection. They sent me back the right direction. From there it was only about 15 - 20 minutes to the Oyster Dome. I rarely plan on going to the Dome, but somehow usually end up there. Even though it was over cast and bitterly windy, the view was awesome.  On the trail there were a few pretty decent mud-slop areas. One in particular about half way from Max's trail's end and the Hwy 11 connection that I had to do some creative side stepping to get over without sinking. (The dogs, of course, loved sinking up to their knees in it). Only one blow down, but it had been mostly cleared and was easy to navigate.The trip up took me 2 hours almost exactly, that includes my little adventure down the trail in the wrong direction. The way down took just a little over an hour. Max's Shortcut is well maintained and fun for jogging down. All of the bridges were in good shape with the exception of one that has some pretty worn boards.All around, an A+ hike.Personally I find the oyster dome trail to be less than exciting - the other side of Blanchard mt has far more charming trails. On the plus side, views of the bay and islands are fantastic, and its a good workout. Best of all it has no snow most of the year! Thanks to an enormous amount of volunteer trail maintainence the trail is in great shape! Very little mud to speak of - I enjoyed an early season hike in tennis shoes, and still finished the trail in dry shoes. Probably not a good weekend choice because parking is minimal at best. If there's no parking on Chuckanut drive and you have a burning desire to see the views you can always circle around Blanchard mt and drive up to the Samish overlook. I would estimate this would cut off about 1000' of elevation gain too - not a bonus in my book. We took the Samish Bay trail that begins on Chuckanut Drive noting evidence of some great trail work by the WTA on the way up. We hit the steep part of the Connection Trail and then on the Oyster Dome. After lunch on the rock we took the Rocky Trail to Lily Lake, caught Max's Shortcut to the Larry Reed trail and took a rest stop on the Samish Overlook. After soaking up some sun there we proceeded back down catching the Samish Bay Trail. All totaled we got in a bit over nine miles and a total elevation gain of 2700 feet. Over all the trail is in very good condition except for a few mucky low areas. This was a loop hike except for the last two miles or so where we connected with a portion of the Samish Bay Trail going back down. We saw one Trillium along the trail (a first for the year for us) and lots of Skunk Cabbage in some low area and at Lily Lake.The trail head is located approx. 10.2 miles from I-5 (via Chuckanut Drive (SR 11)), on right. As long as you are accessing the trail from its head off SR 11 (Chuckanut), there is no need for a Discovery Pass to access this trail, as it is outside any park grounds. While there is plenty of parking on both sides of SR 11, it is mostly shoulder space with few (i.e. one just before mile marker 10) open "lots".From SR 11, the direction to Oyster Dome is confusing at two distinct junctions, so ensure you continue STRAIGHT at the FIRST junction (a sign at the junction hints this is correct with Oyster Trail) and LEFT at the SECOND junction (a large cedar has an arrow carved into it to help, but no signs are posted). Having never hiked the trail before, I was aided at both locations by fellow hikers.Trail conditions were good overall, with the trail being well worn and easy to follow, but there were a few large mudholes along the way. Also, the trail traverses approx. 4 small streams, all of which, at the time, were no more than a few inches deep and a few feet across.If you're moving at a medium to moderate pace, it is approx. 1hr 30min to Oyster Dome from the SR 11 trail head.Trail dry except for the mud bog.  Bog seems to get wider every year.  But, thanks to recent trail maintenance, there's several logs and boulders you can use to get across and stay out of the worst of the muck.  Water crossings are easy.The Talus trail spur is closed and posted.  Still no trail marker at the "T" intersection at ~2.8mi.  Go left for Oyster Dome.We began our hike at the TH at Samish Overlook. To reach this TH take the Alger exit from I-5. Head NW from the exit up Lake Samish Road for about 0.3 miles. Turn left on Barrell Springs Road and in 0.7 miles turn right on Blanchard Hill Trail. Follow the gravel road past the Lower TH and turn left on Samish Overlook Road. We hiked 0.5 mile on the PNW trail to the junction with the trail starting on HWY 11 saving 800 ft gain. The trail from here had many roots and many muddy areas. After having lunch at Oyster Dome, we hiked to Lily and Lizard Lakes returning on Max's SC and the Larry Reed Trail to the TH. If we were to do Oyster Dome again, we would begin on the trail to Lily and Lizard Lakes via the Larry Reed Trail and Max's SC to avoid the rooty and muddy sections we encountered on today's hike.This was an accidental hike, meaning I had no plans of doing this today. While I have been to the Oyster Dome once before (in January) my intent today was merely to drive up to the Samish Overlook and walk around the area to get my labs out of the house on a sunny day. Once there, I noticed the sign that pointed to the Oyster Dome trail and decided to walk a little ways down the trail. Well, on a day that is as beautiful as this who could just walk a little ways?The connecting trail (Larry Reed, I believe it's called) to the main trail to the dome is an easy down hill jaunt, peppered along the way with great views of Samish Bay.Once you reach the junction, the main trail is also in pretty good shape for the amount of rain we've had. I noticed there was a little more water crossing the path in a few areas, and the sections that are usually muddy were a challenge to cross if you wanted to keep your boots clean. (While I managed to log-hop my way across, my two labs went right through the middle and ended up sinking about 5".) But all in all nothing that would stop even beginners from crossing.Other than a little snow at the top, the trail was clear and in decent shape. As usual, the view was breathtaking. I recommend this route for folks who want to do the dome but don't have the usual amount of time it takes. I'm a slow hiker (ref. age, arthritis, stopping to take pics) and it took me 1 1/2 hr to reach the dome from the parking lot. The people you meet on this hike are wonderful. No one seems to mind off-leash dogs. It's nice to have a trail where dogs can just be dogs and run and play. We will definitely be making this hike again.Lily Lake/Oyster Dome is a favorite winter hike.  It leaps up aggressively from a non-descript trailhead right off Chuckanut Drive.  Parking is along the side of the road.  The first part of the trail climbs up the steep slope to a junction.  Right goes to an overlook; left continues to Oyster Dome and Lily Lake.  Up to this point the trail is in fine shape.From the junction to the Bat Caves [no longer accessible because of unsafe trail and potential disease to the bats according the the signs] there are many muddy bogs to cross.  Somebody [WTA?] has done a lot of work on this section but some puncheons and turnpikes are desperately needed.  From the Bat Caves to the next junction the trail is very steep and rough.  This section could really use some switchbacks.A light dusting of snow tinges the trail at the junction where abandoned steel logging cables are much in evidence.  Left goes to Oyster Dome which we did not do because it was foggy and sprinking and we would not see any views anyway.  So we went right to Lily Lake.This section of trail is very nice, broad, and mostly level.  There are a number of blowdowns along the way.  I cut many of the branches to make them easier to step over.  Lily Lake itself is very pretty in its blanket of snow and ice.Just as Chuckanut Road emerges from the mountains onto the Skagit plain at Legg Road, new owners are sprucing up the Japanese garden and coffee house.  No food yet and coffee service is limited, but the dining room is very nice and this will become a fine place to relax at the end of future hikes. Snowmelt dripping down from the tops of trees turning the trail to mud--when we got to the top it seemed like only a little bit of the snow was left, so maybe the trail will be dry soon? There was a lot of mist too. As of today it was extremely muddy! Lots of dogs were covered in mud : ) I think they had some fun!The bat cave routes were CLOSED. Lots of people were asking where the bat caves were--so I also included a photo of the sign below. I guess the route is permanently closed now?Long (7 mile RT) steep (2000 ft elev. gain) hike. Took me 1 3/4 hrs up & 1/2 hrs down. Get up early and rise above the clouds.Absolutely stunning!!The wife and I drove up North today for a training hike and some views, and a new summit for me. I've noted the Chuckanut Mountains several times while reading trip reports and researching hikes. Located South of Bellingham right along the sound, there are many miles of trail between several different parks in the area open to varying combinations of hikers, horses and mountain bikes.The route we chose starts from Highway 11 where it intersects with the Pacific Northwest Trail, which travels from the far NW corner of the Olympic Penninsula to the Rocky Mountains in Montana, between roads, trails and ferries. After a 1 1/2 hour drive from Renton we were more than ready to get moving. There is not much parking available on the side of the highway, enough room for 10-20 vehicles max. The first section of trail switchbacks up steep slopes toward Samish Overlook where Para-gliders and Hang-gliders launch off the cliffs. One could cut at least 2 miles and 1000' of climbing by parking in the lot at the Overlook. Discovery Pass required.We passed the turnoff for Samish Overlook, planning on looping through it from Max's Shortcut Trail after visiting Lily Lake giving the dense clouds and fog time to clear. The trail to the Bat Caves was closed recently to prevent disturbing the nature. Bummer, but fair enough. The trail to the Oyster Dome is not marked, and it is kind of hard to see it at the start.  We found a campsite complete with a fire pit at the summit. The rock at the viewpoint was insanely slick, even where it was clearly dry from the sun. Views were incredible of the Olympics, dozens of islands in the Sound, and even some distant Canadian peaks. I dropped down below for a look at the big wall and could see huge cracks below (maybe part of the caves).We encountered some snow on the trail en route to Lily Lake, which was frozen over and covered in powder. It would have been very peaceful if not for a couple folks who seemed to find it necessary to yell back and forth around the camping area.  The sun caught the Northern edge of the lake, creating a creepy fog that lingered while we snacked, and until I returned from the short bushwhack to the main summit of what the locals call Blanchard Hill. We did not see a sign for Max's Shortcut, but found the trail itself rather easily. We were passed by a few mountain bikers on their way down, as well as a few hikers on their way up. The trail was clear of trees to the Oyster dome. We climbed over several blowdowns, and encountered about a mile of patchy snow on the trail from there to Lily Lake and on Max's Shortcut. It seems like we never covered more than a quarter mile without a creek crossing, except for the switchbacks below Samish Overlook.~10 miles round trip~3200 ft elevation gain2 hours to Oyster Dome45 minutes to main Summit2 hours downS the day started off really promising. My girlfriend and I left puyallup, wa at around 063 and arrived at the trailhead at exactly 0830. The drive was 112 miles and took right at two hours. The weather was a bit drizzly when we left the house but it wasn't anything that wasn't out of the ordinary for this time of year. When we got to the trailhead we noticed that there were Kready several cars parked along side of the road. On a side note if you're expecting a parking lot or something to that effect you will be sorely mistaken. There are two areas along the roadside that allowe for about 5-6 cars to park without boxing anyone in.We did ur checks and began our hike at roughly 0845-0900. The hike starts you off at about 151 ft MSL. The initial 800 ft of elevation gain are via 4 switchbacks. You gain elevation relatively quickly so make sure to stretch. It is 3.1 miles to the top. I used a Gamrin foretrex 400 to keep my trip data. The weather was nice a cool with a bit of mist on our way up. We encountered about 4-5 trail runners on our way up. As we got towards the 3/4 mark the weather changed from light rain to snow! Wich was actually quite nice because the snow held down the heat and warmed things up a bit. The trails were very well maintained. I have been very impressed with the trail maintenance in Washington. As to the weather once we got to the top we were unfortunately greyed out. The weather was very cold on top. Wind was blowing and freezing snow. We had no views from the top. But this hike is definitely a repeat for the summer when I am sure it will have plenty of amazing sunset views from the top. On our way down we did encounter numerous groups of hikers on their way up. However the trail was quite wet and very muddy on the way down. But all in all this was a great way to spend an early morning. We finished our trip 1230. Then went and grabbed some refuel at Five Guys Burgers and Fries in Burlington on our way home. Phlemy and I were looking for something close in and opted for Oyster Dome..........a favorite winter hike. The weather was fine with some fog, but the trail was a mess in places. Still, that was to be expected on this trail. There were lots of folks hiking the trail today and many,  many dogs. Still they were well behaved and on leashes. Pet owners are getting with the program. Thanks! We did the loop via Hwy 11, Max's Shortcut and the Overlook. A fine day and good workout. After several days of careful coordination reading NWS weather reports every 4 hours, Geezer Patrol managed to select a day with a small typhoon to go "view hiking".  Contrary to the WTA directions, we took the weenie trailhead by exiting I-5 at Alger and driving west 3 miles to the Samish Bay overlook. This saves a 2 mile, 1000' grunt up the slope from Chuckanut Drive.  See http://www.hikerandom.com/?p=23 for explicit directions and a nice link to a trail map THAT YOU WILL NEED.  This overlook trailhead has the full monty - good parking, a nice toity and a really fine view if you aren't in a cloud like we were.We took off from the North end of the lot, slowly climbing up the "Samish Bay Connection" as our blood pressure slowly increased to operational levels.  The trail is in fine shape even after a small deluge.  Approaching the Dome, the trail gets very steep but still pretty.  Through our anoxic fog, we missed the turnoff to the Talus Trail - it may be in an area marked "under restoration".  At the top of the steepest part, there is no signage other than a small arrow carved into a tree to indicate the path up the Rock Trail to the dome.  This last section crosses the Lily Lake outflow and very shortly one achieves the summit of the Dome on an easier gradient than the prior .5 miles.  With some gusty winds at the top, we elected to find some shelter on the North side in a fine, pine needle glen.  On the way out, we turned East "at the arrow" over to Lily Lake to observe some very active beaver ponds and the lake dusted with some fresh snow.  We decided to save Lizard Lake further up the path for another day.  Retreating from Lilly, we took the cutoff to Max's Shortcut back down the mountain.  This cutoff is not marked but you are on the right trail if you observe white blazes placed on the trees along the way.  Max's Shortcut is a really fine trail thru the dense forest - well maintained and constructed.  It provides a longer but easier gradient up or down the mountain.  Our round trip measured out at 5 miles.  Our weather was obviously marginal.  Be smart and do this on a brighter day.  All agreeed this was a fine hiking location to be enjoyed again.  This was my second time hiking this trail, the first being in June this year. I was just hoping for no rain, but we actually got beautiful blue skies as well! The trail was in perfect condition, the creeks were a tiny bit wider this time, but all the more fun.  There were a couple really muddy spots, but i expected worse. Overall great hike, we took our time and it was about 4 hours of hiking roundtrip. The trail is in great shape, very few puddles and stream crossings that are no problem with waterproof boots. The view was obviously not the best due to the weather but the trail was fine. The trees and ferns were great to look at. Saw about 5-10 people when we were there.Hiking in the Chuckanuts makes for a nice lowland hike even though the term lowland can be a bit of a misnomer in that it is easy to find some challanging elevation gains there. The Samish Bay Connector aka: Pacific Northwest Tr, trail offers just that going up to the Oyster Dome. The last quarter mile is quite the challange, but well worth the effort.After lunch and enjoying the view of the San Juans from the summit we plotted a route for our descent that would be easier on the knees coming down and decided on the Lily Lake-Max's Shortcut-Larry Reed loop that connects with the lower section of the Samish Bay trail. It added a few miles to the hike but we got to get the great view from the Samish Overlook on the way back. Our total distance was about 7.4 miles.Back at the car while we got our packs off we were rewarded with a show of a couple eagles, hawks and crows overhead.On Sun. morning 3 of my friends and I left Chilliwack at 8:00. We made it across the border without any problems arriving at the TH close to 10:00.  Only 2 other cars at the TH.We geared up putting on our gaitors and getting our cameras ready.  We read the signs re: PNT and went on our way. About 1-2 minutes into the hike we all agreed the trail was beautiful!  Nice and wide, gorgeous fall colors, no bushwacking.  The trail was steep in parts then leveled out allowing us to catch our breath.  We arrived at the first lookout and though it was a grey day were excited to see some islands.  Pressed on knowing the weather wasn't going to be in our favor.  We kept our eyes open and soaked up the yellow fallen leaves, healthy ferns and moss on the trees.  Came to a junction and knew to keep left.  Shortly after this we started to encounter our first creekbeds.  The water was flowing but nothing that made us have to turn around or roll up our pants.  When we finally arrived at the top (2 hrs later) we saw nothing!  We laughed but still took pictures. (why I don't know). On our way up we had seen one solo hiker and one couple.  On the way down, too many people to count! Families, couples, people heading up to fly. :) Busy trail. :)Parked on Chuckanut, arriving at 11:45am I was surprised to find ample parking after we had slept late.  Another beautiful, sunny day and with no rain for weeks the trail is in excellent shape.  No soggy spots, no muddy boot sinkers, and even the creek crossing near the top was but a trickle.  Having started late, we skipped the hang glider launch and bat caves, and sped to the top 1 hour 45 mins.  Through the course of the trip, we encountered < 15 hikers, 2 small groups on mtn. bikes, and 2 women on horseback.  Added Benefit = a post-hike trip to Boundary Bay Brewery for an refreshing IPA.We arrived at the trailhead (south of the Oyster Bar) around 9:15 am, and were the 4th car to park. As this was probably one of the busiest days of the year to hike this trail, I was worried about the parking, but no problem for the early arrivals. ;)The first part of the hike up the Samish Bay Connector trail was a nice, wide trail, gentle grade, around 800'/mile.There was a sign at this junction saying the trail was closed due to protect the bats due to White Nose Syndrome. There was no date on the sign, and it was unclear whether the Oyster Dome trail was closed or not. I had to ignore the sign and continue upward.After the Talus trail junction to the Bat Caves Amphitheater, the trail was steeper, but only for the last 300' of elevation.We were intrigued by all the "Batman" bats someone has painted on dozens of trees near the talus rock?There's a great view of the Oyster Dome from here, I would highly recommend taking this detour. The creek is not difficult to cross in it's current "dry state".The views at top were magnificent on this Labor Day weekend. The only downside to this hike is all the people!On the way down we hiked over to the Samish View Point, and watched a couple Paragliders take off, very cool. The views were almost as good as the Oyster Dome.If you wanted to shave about 1,200' of elevation off your hike to Oyster Dome, you could park here!We arrived at the trailhead (south of the Oyster Bar) around 9:15 am, and were the 4th car to park. As this was probably one of the busiest days of the year to hike this trail, I was worried about the parking, but no problem for the early arrivals. ;)The first part of the hike up the Samish Bay Connector trail was a nice, wide trail, gentle grade, around 800'/mile.There was a sign at this junction saying the trail was closed due to protect the bats due to White Nose Syndrome. There was no date on the sign, and it was unclear whether the Oyster Dome trail was closed or not. I had to ignore the sign and continue upward.After the Talus trail junction to the Bat Caves Amphitheater, the trail was steeper, but only for the last 300' of elevation.We were intrigued by all the "Batman" bats someone has painted on dozens of trees near the talus rock?There's a great view of the Oyster Dome from here, I would highly recommend taking this detour. The creek is not difficult to cross in it's current "dry state".The views at top were magnificent on this Labor Day weekend. The only downside to this hike is all the people!On the way down we hiked over to the Samish View Point, and watched a couple Paragliders take off, very cool. The views were almost as good as the Oyster Dome.If you wanted to shave about 1,200' of elevation off your hike to Oyster Dome, you could park here!Parking on Chuckanut Drive (State Route 11) at mile marker 10 was tricky. We had two kids and two dogs and had to use extreme caution due to the narrow parking spaces that were so close to the traffic. We carried the dogs and had the kids by hand. The first ascent was dry and very steep. I wasn't expecting the climb to be as rapid as it was. Bring plenty of water, because you will be thirsty.The hike mellows out here and there, but the ascent in rigorously steep in places, making slipping on small rocks a real possibility. I saw a girl in light flip flops and have no idea how she maintained a firm grip. Wear hard soled shoes and layers of clothing for when you need some fresh air to cool down.Make sure you bring a lunch to eat once you get to Oysterdome...you'll be hungry, I promise. The descent went more quickly, but still was tough on the tired legs. I slipped once on a slick rock and went completely down. There were a couple mud holes on the hike, but they are easy to get past...and what's a little mud on the shoe, right? Anyway, the last week in July proved to be a sunny hike with cool breezes and the overall trip was a great one. If you plan to stop in the shady spots, bring your mosquito spray ;).BRIDGE TO BAT CAVES IS GONE!  There is supposed to be a side trip that you can take to view the bat caves along this trail.  However, the bridge to the bat caves washed out and you can no longer easily cross the creek to get the them.  The trail is still there but there are branches across to discourage people from trying to get there.  A dedicated person could probably get across but definitely not recommend for most hikers.It is a surprisingly steep climb and the second half of the trail is rather muddy this time of year, but the views of the Puget Sound are amazing once you get to the top.  Definitely worth it but be prepared to share the trail with lots of other hikers. Hike is beautiful, but definitely a bit high traffic and muddy. Watch out for major mudholes and some water on the trail. Still completely worth it for the view at the top. Beware of adorable chipmunks, though, they are totally after your lunch!  Yesterday was a bad day for a hike. Today, on the other hand, was a pretty good day for a hike.The Pacific Northwest Trail is in good shape aside from a tree hanging over the trail only a few hundred feet from the trailhead. The Samish Connector is pretty muddy, though I think that's due largely to the recent rains. Mud patches and minor creek crossings are numerous, but the trail was not particularly slippery and there were no washouts or slides. Yes, the climb between the erratics and the junction with the Lily Lake trail is very steep, but the views from Oyster Dome are absolutely worth the effort.As mentioned by others, there is no longer a trail to the Batcave (er, bat caves). I didn't notice the side trail to the logging road mentioned in the hike description.On the way back, I took a detour to the viewpoint half a mile further up the PNT. This is absolutely worth your time, since it is mostly flat and provides a view of the Skagit River Delta that's mostly blocked by trees from Oyster Dome itself (also of note: a bathroom). If you're in the mood for a long drive on a gravel road, you could skip much of the initial elevation gain and start the hike here rather than on Chuckanut Drive.  I may do that next time I have the urge to visit, since the trail ends up there anyway if you head toward Lily Lake from Oyster Dome instead returning to the road.We hiked up from Chuckanut Drive only to find at the junction to the Oyster Dome this notice that the Oyster Dome and the bat caves are CLOSED TO THE PUBLC DUE TO STRESS TO THE BAT POPULATION AND A WHITE-NOSE SYNDROME AFFECTING THE BATS BROUGHT IN BY HIKERS!!!.  We really wished this sign was posted at the bottom near Chuckanut before we started the hike. Disappointed after hiking this far, we continued up the the new Samish outlook with a very fine view.  There we were treated to watching a father and son jump off the cliff with their hang gliders.  Here again there was no sign that the Oyster Dome is closed if you start at this trailhead.  We ran into another hiker who said she checked WTA that morning and there was not notice that the Oyster Dome area is closed.  I checked tonight and see she did not post so I am, a couple days late.We started at 0840 in the gorgeous sunshine.  This was a perfect start time as the trail was quiet.  But on the return, it was a madhouse!  We stayed on top for about 1.5 hrs and we had a nice 10 minute window with the whole thing to ourselves.The trail was dry and easy to follow with easy creek crossings and the views were fabulous.It took us approx. 1 hr and 35 min to get up there and 1 hr and 10 on the way back.Great day and great workout!!Take this hike for the views, not for the solitude as you won't be alone! Another sunny weekend day to enjoy a hike. With the nice weather we figured it was a good opportunity to do this hike --- if we're going to climb over 2,000 feet we want to see some rewards for our effort. We weren't disappointed. On the way up we took a 1 mile roundtrip detour to a nice lookout point. We were told hang gliders take off from here but we didn't see any. The views across the sound were still great, though. Onward and upward we climbed to the top of Oyster Dome for even more expansive views. Even though the trail was packed, it was still an enjoyable hike. Another group at the top had brought champagne and made mimosas to celebrate their climb -- not a bad idea!Most of the trail is fine, there are maybe 3-4 sections with a little wet mud, but they didn't cause us any issues. We reached the trailhead at 8:40 am on a gorgeous Saturday morning, and there were just 8 other cars parked. By the time we got back to our car, we had crossed about 60-80 people - this is a popular hike - reach early to get parking space!We ventured up North to take advantage of the views on a partly sunny spring day. We arrived at the parking spots on the side of the road near the PNW trailhead (we followed the trail described in the hiking guide, but there are multiple trailheads and criscrossing trails on Oyster Dome). At 9 am, there were still spots left. Some cars had their Discover Passes out; others, not so much. The trail was in pretty good condition in the lower reaches, though higher up there were muddy and slippery spots. It takes just a little bit of water to make this trail slippery, and I slipped a few times on the way down. Spring flowers were just starting to bloom.Views at the top were nice, but there were too many clouds to see the Olympics. We could see Samish Bay, Anacortes, Orcas, and some of the other islands. Birds of prey were circling above, here and there. During the descent, we were treated to views of hanggliders and paragliders, and one even said "hello" to us.The weekend weather was looking promising, and wanting some elevation gain AND some mileage, I decided to head to Oyster Dome.  I left home just before dawn to beat the rush...this place sure gets crowded on a nice day.  The drive up was under sunny skies, but about 3 miles from the trailhead, I drove straight under the overcast.  Made for a cool hike up, but no complaints.The trail was in fine shape.  One or two muddy spots, but overall good shape.Took the straight shot up Oyster Dome, and then looped back around via Lily lake and Samish Overlook.  Lots of hang gliders and paragliders at the overlook. From the Samish Overlook junction down, there was a constant stream of hikers headed up.  Constant.  Back at the trailhead, there roadside was overflowing with cars as far as the eye could see.  Glad I went early!This was hike 28 of my 30/300/30000 @ 30 challenge.1. Deception Pass2. Wallace Falls3. Spencer Island4. E. Fork Foss River5. Lake Serene6. Wallace Falls7. Goat Lake (N. Cascades)8. Boulder River9. Third Beach to Toleak Point (Overnight)10. Big Quilcene/Marmot Pass (Overnight)11. Lake 2212. N. Fork Skokomish (Overnight)13. Welcome Pass/High Divide14. Golden Lakes/Sunset Park (Overnight)15. Glacier Basin16. Sunrise Area Trails17. Park Butte18. Mt. Pilchuck19. Barclay Lake20. Cutthroat Pass21. West Fork Foss River22. Mount Constitution23. Spencer Island24. Pine and Cedar Lakes25. Skline Lake (Snowshoe)26. Wallace Falls27. Dungeness Spit28. Oyster Dome28 Hikes, 240.8 Miles, 46800' Elevation Gain.Two hikes to go, two weeks to go.  I wasn't planning on this being a photo finish, but bad weather, busy schedules, cold and flu season, business trips, boat building and other factors really cut into the number of times I was able to get out this winter.  I've had to give up on making the mileage goal.  60 miles in the next two weeks isn't going to happen.  Will I make the 30 hikes?  Stay Tuned!Sunny day beckoned my Boston Terriers and me to this hike; we arrived at the trailhead at around 9:15AM or so. Not much to add to the recent reports other than to expect a few mudholes about halfway through the hike and be prepared for a rooty and sometimes steep climb in the final half mile.On the way down I passed several dozen hikers heading up at around 11AM. We made it back to the car before noon.Oyster Dome is a great spring hike when you are waiting for the snows in the Cascade to retreat; it offers a great vista toward the San Juan Islands.I challenged myself to take pictures of something besides the sweeping views I knew I was going to get at the top. I came up with a pileated woodpecker drawn in the stream foam, a pretty lake, spring skunk cabbage and a beaver felled log. We felt like we really got a hike in today instead of just a scenic walk.  The trail is fairly steep and rooty.  There are some very muddy spots and some slick steep spots that would be difficult for small children, and hard on creaky knees coming down. After soaking up the views at the Dome, take the trail heading to Lily lake. It's level and not that long.  Fish were jumping when we were there.  If you are driving from any distance be warned there is not a toilet there at the TH. It's right off the road. Its DNR land, you will need a Discover Pass.The weather for Easter was nothing short of spectacular for early April.  Two friends of mine came along this time and one brought their energetic dog that just loves to go hiking.  My friend kept his canine companion on a leash all day and I can't say the same for others.  Although we did not encounter any problems with other dogs people need to leash their pooch on a trail this busy in consideration of others or leave the dog at home.  We arrived at the trailhead along Chuckanut Drive just after 10 and parking was going fast.  The trail wasn't too busy on the way up and our trio had long stretches of time alone.  By the time we started the last mile up the trail it was busy and would remain so at the top and the rest of the day.  Solitude was not an option today but sweeping views of Puget Sound, islands and snow covered mountains were on tap all day under the warm sun.The trail itself is not for beginners and begins from an unassuming spot along Chuckanut Drive.  It gets to work quickly climbing switchbacks before leveling off and taking a more strolling route.  About 1/2 way up there was a nice bench offering views of what was to come.  About 1 1/2 miles up there was a side trail that leads just 1/2 mile to the Samish Overlook which can be reached by car or if you're looking for an easier hike.  If you're coming up from the bottom and wish to see the overlook, do so on the way up or you'll probably skip it.  Back on the main trail the last mile gets steep and before that there were mudholes and few easy creeks to cross.  At one point we thought maybe we missed it but just keep climbing and you'll get there!  The views at the top were amazing Anacortes, San Juan Islands, Olympics and everything in between can be seen from Oyster Dome.  An awesome view hike on a sunny day for sure!Nice day to get out. The weather was great and the trail was in good condition. ALOT of hikers on the trail.This is about the zillionth time that I've done this trip and there's been enough trip reports lately that I probably don't have a lot to add except to say that this trip is worth doing about a zillion times. Especially on a day like today with blue skies and a dusting of snow on the dome. Gorgeous. Chippie and Jesse the hyper pup joined me today. The trail was indeed muddy and wet in a few cases, but that's often the case on what is mostly a boot beaten path that's had a few improvements over the years. The creek crossings were higher than usual, but a piece of cake if you look around for a good spot to cross. The views from Oyster Dome are spectacular as usual and we took the long way back via a loop including the Lily Lake trail and Max's Cutoff. The view from the overlook/paragliding balcony were great as well and lots of work is being done here to make an interpretive/picnic area here. The very beginnings of spring are coming to the coastal forest making us feel hopeful that winter's coming to an end. A great day for us all with lots of opportunities for Jesse and I to get into mischief playing doggie games.Our group of Tuesday Trekkers enjoyed a wonderful day going to Oyster Dome. We went up via the most direct route -- the one described in the guide book -- and returned via Max's Shortcut. The latter added about 2 miles to the hike, but enabled us to make a loop hike through quite different terrain and also to avoid having to negotiate the very steep and difficult sections of the main trail. The destination - Oyster Dome - is truly splendid! We had a glorious day weather-wise and the views were stupendous! We do have two comments relative to the descriptions in the guide book: The hike (via the route described in the book)should be rated 4, not 3, both for the beauty and for the difficulty. This hike was a high point for us in terms of the sheer beauty of the place. It was, however, much steeper and considerably more difficult (along the Samish Bay Connector Trail and Oyster Dome Trail) than most hikes rated 3 or Moderate. The route down via Max's Shortcut and the Pacific Northwest Trail was delightful and an easy 3.Wow! Nice reward for lowland winter hike.We entered the trail head off Chuckanut and it only takes minutes to escape the sights and sounds of civilization but not for lack of effort. A moderate mile and a half to start puts you at the Connection and then meanders up and down across creeks and through some marshy spots. From there it's a vigorous climb over almost designed rock and tree root stairways. Once you're at the summit the views amaze. Overlooking the sound from atop the massive dome face is a site to see, although the haze still lingers somewhat. The entire trek was surprisingly dry but be prepared to step through some creeks along the way as well as some muddy spots. Total time was just under 4 hours.We entered the trail from the east, off Barrel Springs Road.  The trail was quite wet, although it was in pretty good condition.  There was a little bit of slushy snow on the trail, and the weather was quite wet.  Once we hit the dome, visibility was too poor to see anything, but overall, it was an easy hike.  I'd recommend rain gear and a good pair of waterproof boots.Looking for hikes to prepare for a Baker and St. Helens summit trip in a few months.  This came recommend, so I gave it a shot.  Loaded my pack with about 30lbs of stuff and went on the trail.  It was a gorgeous day outside...nothing to complain about.  No wind..probably about 30-35 out.  Just watch out for the ice on the trail...it will get you. I wiped out a few times..Some areas have a dusting of snow..and its kind squirlly too.  But had a great timeThis is a favorite loop hike this time of year.  I took three holiday visitors hiking on Chuckanut Mountain.  We started at the Samish Overlook, took the PNT to Max's Shortcut, went to Lily Lake and North Butte, went to the Oyster Dome and Bat Caves, and took the Samish Connector trail back to the Overlook.  It's about a 6.5 mile loop. We encountered a dozen other hikers on the trail.It was raining on the way there, but it stopped when we started hiking.  The fog was too thick for any views at North Butte, but we could see across the Sound at the Oyster Dome.  It started raining again on the way home.  Our timing was good.My friends from Utah enjoyed the hike and I had a good workout.  That's good for my last (and 91st) hike of 2011.  Happy Hiking New Year,Geezerhiker  We spent the better part of Black Friday working off the Thanksgiving dinner of the previous day hiking up to the Oyster Dome. We started from the east, upper trailhead off from Barrel Springs Rd. After 1.5 miles we took Max's Shortcut and made our descent on another trail making it a loop part of the way.The trail has the seasonal muddy areas but is in good condition. We went through small streams running across the trail, but nothing that would cause you to get wet. We passed a fine looking beaver dam near Lily Lake that we did't remember being there in June of this year.The view form the Dome was spectactular as the landscape and Sound were sunny and clearer. The Oyster Dome although was under a cloud and the wind made it pretty cold.Beware of wet areas on the rock as there is a thin layer of green growth that makes the rock very slipppery.A great hike for a late fall day. The trail was mostly clear, with a few easy stream crossings, one fairly muddy patch, and ground becoming frosty in the second half of the trail. There was quite a bit of old snow on the trees at the top of the trail, but only a thin covering on the ground. It made it pretty slippery, so poles recommended.The view is stunning, and even the viewpoint a mile in is well worth the trip.I found the trail description slightly confusing. Probably because I was rushing to read the directions in the morning, I saw 'turn left at the Talus trail intersection', and did just that. I didn't realize that going left leads Only to the amphitheater, and spent quite a while wandering around the mess of trails there before a kind soul directed me. So, to get to the dome, make sure to stay right at the Talus intersection! We started out from Seattle (1 1/2 hr) to get to the trail on Chuckanut Drive. We had eaten at the Oyster Bar a couple of weeks ago so knew exactly where the trail started. It is a bit hard to see the sign from the road but as soon as you see the 10 marker than you will see cars parked on the left.  We started the trail at 10:45am and it was a good thing. As we were hiking up the trail we did talk to hikers coming down that didn't have a view of the islands because of the clouds.  I think it's good to go later in the morning because by the time we reached the Oyster Dome the clouds had started to disappear and then you were rewarded by an amazing view.  Nice spot for lunch. It took us about 2 hours to reach the top and it was a work out. It was nice that the trail is in the shade of the trees. My husband and I are in pretty good shape but there were a couple of small areas where you have to scramble over tree roots on a steep ascent hiking to the dome.  I had read Linda's trip report and was glad to see the directions on how to do a loop and go down Max's shortcut back to our car on Chuckanut Drive. We shared our information with a couple other hikers that didn't know about the loop and did it as well.   I wanted to elaborate the directions for taking Max's shortcut trail. From Oyster Dome to Max's Trail to do a loop hike:From Oyster Dome, you can go back down the Rock trail, where you see the first sign for Oyster Dome/Lily's Lake, you will want to go towards Lily's Lake instead of going back down the same trail you came up on.  You will come to a second Lily's Lake sign on the trail.  It is at the second sign, you will take a right and another fast right (you will see a sign that says Max's trail posted on tree). Follow the trail about 45 minutes and then you will come to a junction.  THis is where you want to take a right. We had taken the left and went the wrong way so after a mile we had to backtrack to the junction where we took a right. You follow this trail and will see signs for horses/hikers and will follow the signs until you come to a logging road.Go across the logging road and continue about 10 minutes and you will come to a parking lot with bathrooms. Then cross the parking lot and hook up to the trail.You will want to stay left (ocean on the right) and follow the trail until you return to the same trail you came up on and return to Chuckanut drive.  It took longer to do the loop trail but  it was nicer trail. I took out the time we did going the wrong direction at the junction and taking a break at the parking lot to watch the hang gliders take off from this area. I say it took 3 hours to return back to car. It was a worthwhile hike and we enjoyed it.  No mosquitos on the trail so that was a plus.By the way, I was amazed at a few people who were starting this hike at 4 or 5pm. I wouldn't suggest hiking back in the dark after the sun sets.If you are looking for a nice hike in the wilderness, keep looking. The trail itself is in good condition but this hike is more like a walk through the park (and not a nice park). While the trail does gain some elevation, and there are a few very nice views toward and at the top, there is really nothing particularly interesting on the trail itself; the foliage isn't much different than what grew behind my former back yard in Lynnwood and the sound of the street below for the first several minutes of the hike, the sound of a chainsaw for a good portion of the hike, the stepping over dog excrement (5+ TIMES) and pointing out cigarette butts along the trail doesn't exactly help matters either. There were also many bugs. I will admit that most of them were not blood suckers, but the endless gnats and flies will accompany you for the entire trail and maybe even get stuck in your shirt... It seems that the high user rating of this hike was based purely off of the view at the top and nothing else.The first day of summer and what a great day after hiking in the rain two days ago. We took the Lily Lake-Lizzard lake trail up the dome starting from the Barrrel Spring Road. The trail is in great condition. We met a few mountain bikers on the way-didn;t envy the going up. Along the trail we found wild flowers: trillium (done blooming) yellow lily, dogwood and columbine. At the Dome we watched as a buzzard sored below and overhead. We did a partial loop for a round trip of about nine miles total. When we got back to the parking and removed the packs and got out of the muddy boots we stood around and watched polywogs in a small , temporary puddle hoping the "wogs" got to be frogs before the puddle dried up.What a gorgeous day to do this hike! We (a group of 9) started out at the trailhead at Chuckanut Drive, and continued up the switchbacks and onto Samish Bay Connection. This trail was completely dry, and although steep, it was not that much of a chore. The views from the top were amazing; you could see all the way to the Olympics and the Canadian Rockies. We descended on Max's shortcut to save our knees. While there were patches of mud here and there, it was a relatively dry and fast trail. And very few bugs.This is a great time to hike Oyster Dome as long as the sun's out. Get out there while it lasts!On busy days I encourage early arrival to this hike as the trail is busy and parking is tight!  Hike is short and generally not a very exciting trek but the views from the top of the dome would be great on a nice day!Due to my misread of the content on the WTA site I spent about an hour trying to find the trail to the dome from the base (near bat caves).  This included hiking around over and above the caves which based on the slippery rocks in the area was fairly sketchy.  I believe the author of the content was rightly trying to warn people about the danger of this area.  I figured it out finally...whoops!After enjoying what views were available near the exposure, I headed back down the path.  Took a detour to the bat caves to see if two rock climbers were visible on the wall which unfortunately they were not.  The remainder of the way down saw 50-60 hikers coming up including a pregnant lady!  This hike is a great scenery local up north hike but it is not really challenging and if exercise is your goal along with hiking enjoyment you might need to incorporate other trails along with this hike.  Cheers!The 3 of us took a day off work for a hike to Oyster Dome.  The heavy rains as we drove thru Everett didn't deter us.   Arrived at the parking area off Chuckanut Drive around 8:30.  This was the first time for us on this trail and it was a steady climb up to Oyster Dome.  Be the time we got to the junction to the Bat Caves we were ready for a lunch break, so did the side trail. had lunch at the amphitheater, & took a quick peek at the bat caves (no bats!) before pushing onward to the final uphill to Oyster Dome.     Great view of the sound from the dome, with scatterings of blue skies.   Even though it was only 6 mile round trip, it was a good work out.  Lovely forested scenery, smattering of wild flowers, trail was mostly in good shape, but there were several muddy spots that could use a little work, and a footbridge that has seen better days.     Oyster Dome may be approached from the west side of Blanchard Mountain or the east side.  The western approach is short and steep. (map at: http://www.hikerandom.com/images/map-blanchard.gif)  The eastern approach is gradual and longer, with only the final leg to the top having any steep portions.  The eastern approach is also better maintained.  Intersections are often not marked or the signs are not readable, so carry a map. The trails are heavily used, so if you need directions, ask.  The day was damp, the rain not heavy.  We did a loop which took us from the eastern approach on Road B-1000 to the Lily Lake Trail, the Samish Overlook, the Samish Bay Connection, the Rock Trail to the Dome top (and back), and return via the Lily Lake Trail (11 miles maybe?) For the most part the trail was in excellent shape, but an important and lengthy exception is the portion between the intersection of the Samish Bay Connection and the trail coming up from the Chuckanut Drive.  From this point to the intersection with the Rock Trail, the path is in poor condition, one mudhhole after another, massive roots in the trail for long stretches, and very steep portions of the trail where progress was impeded by these roots and rock outcrops.  This part appeared to have received no maintenance for years, even though use has been continual. In slippery conditions these parts of the trail were treacherous.  Views of the Skagit Flats and the San Juan Islands from the Overlook and the Dome were well worth it even though the day was heavily overcast.Flickr: http://bit.ly/oyster-domeOyster Dome was among one of the recent hiking trip reports on the WTA site, and it's also been on my list of backup hikes when all else fails. It was another wet weekend in most parts of the Cascades and not too many pockets of rain shadow to choose hike wise. Surprisingly, west of the Cascades had only 50% chance of precipitation, so Oyster Dome immediately came to mind.The drive to the trailhead pretty straightforward. By the time we got to the trailhead at 9 AM there were already five cars parked across the street. Two more cars showed up after we started hiking. The hike is part of the Pacific Northwest Trail (PNT), and many signs were posted throughout to aid hikers in finding the right places. There were also several junctions leading to various destinations along the way. A couple of the viewing spots on the trail allowed us to get a glimpse of the Puget Sound islands.The main path took us to Oyster Dome and it felt like a breeze. Before we knew it, we were atop the granite rock looking out to the water and the surrounding islands. Two other parties arrived shortly afterward. The islands looked amazing, even though it was a bit hazy and the distant islands were harder to make out. I was able to capture San Juan Islands with the long lens but nothing beyond them. I wonder if I could also see Victoria on a bright, sunny day. Due to the popularity of the hike, the boys were on leash the entire time. I'm sure they weren't too happy about not being able to run around and explore. But we'd save that for another weekend.The 6.5-mile hike seemed rather short, so we decided to make a detour to Lily Lake on the way down via the other side of the junction at the top of the ridge. On the way to the lake we saw a horse rider, and that was the extent of our wildlife sighting. The lake wasn't much, looked more like a pond than a lake and a bit swampy. We stayed for about five minutes, took some pictures, and then went back down the mountain.On the way back, we ran into the lady whom we saw at the top while we were getting ready to leave. She was looking for her party that never made it to the top. She wasn't sure if they had turned around midway through the hike back to the car or if they went on another trail. We talked for a little while and hiked down together until we saw two people sitting on the bench at one of the viewing spots. Luckily, they were from the lady's party; the rest of them went on another trail and would be back to meet them shortly. We parted ways and the boys and I arrived back at the car around 2 PM. Many more people coming up the mountain on our way down.We heard that Saturday was supposed to be sunny, and were looking forward to the views from the top of Oyster Dome.  When we got to the trailhead, at about 9:15am, it was cloudy and a bit drizzly.  We parked behind the five or so cars already on the shoulder, then started up the side of the hill, poles in hand.  The first part of the trail before the split to the overlook was mostly dry, with a few tiny muddy patches.  When we got to the overlook junction, it was still misty, so we decided to save it for the downhill portion.  We headed left, following the arrow for "Oyster Trail", then saw a sign for the Samish Connector trail.  This trail was significantly muddier, with at least one 20-30 ft stretch.  However, the mud wasn't too deep, and there were handy branches and stones for footholds strewn conveniently about.  Eventually, we ran into a Samish Connector sign facing the other way.  We were expecting another junction sign pointing us toward Oyster Dome, but did not see one (on the way back, we did see another sign downstream of the second Samish Connector sign).  We continued to the Talus trail split, and took a short jaunt down that trail, which didn't seem to go too far.  We then headed back to the main trail and continued up the slope.  There were a few spots that required some scrambling over rocks and roots, but nothing too slippery.  Near the top, we ran into a signpost sans sign at a T-junction.  Luckily, some kind soul had drawn a little map on the signpost itself, indicating that Oyster Dome was to the left.  We followed that advice, and after a bit more hiking through trees, spied the rocky promontory to the left.  Unfortunately, it was still a bit misty, but as we were having lunch (it was about noon), we could see the mist starting to break, and could see bits and pieces of the islands and the Sound.We took off around 12:30, and about ten minutes into our hike down the clouds cleared and the sun burst through in all its glory.  We made a beeline for the Overlook and the views were fantastic.Overall, an excellent hike.With the promise of sunny weather, I just had to head north to Oyster Dome.  I decided on the more challenging day starting at the lower trailhead on Chuckanut Drive.  At 9 am there were several cars already there.  It was going to be a busy day.  The first 1000' to the first trail junction has been coined "The Stairmaster" by locals - it always lives up to its' name.  From there I opted for a clockwise loop with detours here and there.  The trail past the junction is sometimes very steep, sometimes very muddy and rooty, and sometimes flat.  I took a short bread at the signed glacial erratic looking for a geocache - no dice.  The second detour towards the Bat Caves starts with a trip over a rickety bridge.  There were already quite a few people playing around on the giant boulders in the area.  The next detour was toward Oyster Dome and the primary destination of most people.  The views from this area did not disappoint although the Olympics were somewhat obscured by haze.  I have been told that one can see the Blue Glacier on Mt Olympus from this point.  Then it was off to my primary detour - North Butte.  There is another nice view point here towards the west but the primary view for me is east to Twin Sisters and Mt Baker especially on a clear day like this one.  There is not formally maintained trail to this point and it is generally quite muddy in spots.  Today was no different - one boot was sucked 5 to 6 inches into the mud and goop but the views made up for the inconvenience.I returned to the main trail and followed Max' Shortcut down and around and over to Samish Overlook.  This upper parking lot was packed by the time I got there.  Then it was back to the first trail junction and down, down, down to Chuckanut Drive.  There must have been 50 or more cars parked along the road when I returned.Fairly heavy rain all day today so it's sort of my fault for insisting on finishing this hike. I've got to say, though, there's enough mud and enough 20-30 foot long mud puddles on the trail to make me recommend people wait a couple of weeks to go back to the Oyster Dome. The trail is fine until about 1.5 miles. At that point you get a good mile of swampy conditions that were a real pain to ford. Arrived at the trailhead at about 1230pm. About 30 cars parked along the shoulder of Chuckanut Drive. Thought "Oh boy, going to be busy" but was remarkably quiet along all of the trails and only 8 or so other hikers at the Dome. Hike was pretty muddy but nothing too bad. Several small creeks to get over but plenty of deadfalls/rocks to leapfrog across. Signage up to Oyster Dome could be a bit better. Steep hike (1900 feet in 3 miles) including one almost vertical 50 foot scramble using roots and rocks. View is amazing from Oyster Dome albeit cold. Trail in great condition except for the mud.Mud mud and more mud. Started out about 9a.m. and raining. Its Washington so no problem. Really enjoyed the hike except for all the dog crap on the trail. Come on people if you take you dog at least kick it off the trail. Some pretty tough inclines. got really wet. Over all beautiful. I had a wonderful hike. We arrived at the trailhead at 11am after a slow drive through a blizzard up I-5, and snagged the only free parking spot on the west shoulder of Hwy 11. It was approximately 26F, so we threw on our gear quickly and hit the trail to get warm. The first half mile or so of trail had the least snow on it, but was also the most slippery. The section leading up to and just following the first switchback was especially slippery with a dusting of snow lubricating the frozen pebbles & mud. We were very glad to have trekking poles and would have probably taken significantly more falls without them, both on the way up and on the way down.After the first mile, the trail was completely covered in compacted snow for the remainder of the hike. There were a couple of icy sections, most of which were easy to spot, but generally the trail was very walk-able in boots with decent tread without any kind of additional traction assists. We did pass a bunch of people going on both directions in sneakers who were slipping and sliding all over, so until the next warm spell melts off this week's snow, something with aggressive tread will make life easier here. It is also worth noting that while this hike is very accessible, it does still see real winter conditions. We saw a number of parties on the trail wearing cotton work-out clothes or jeans in sub-freezing temperatures with snow falling, and many of them looked quite unhappy.The trail was easy to follow the whole way, but there were over half a dozen parties ahead of us. At the top of the trail, the wind chill was quite strong and the clouds obscured the view, so we didn't linger but dropped back down to the Lilly Lake junction to have our lunch there. We didn't make the trip in to Lilly Lake, but from the junction that trail looked quite well packed out as well.All told, it was a great hike for this time of year. The leaf-less trees in the lower section allowed for more glimpses of the Sound than later in the season. The snow gave the trail nice atmosphere and it also covered the mud - we got back to the car with cleaner boots than we had left in.Oyster Dome trailhead on Chuckanut Drive is only 1.5 hours from Capitol Hill, even at 8 am in the morning.  This is a wonderful hiking and exploration opportunity in the spring when the Cascades are threatened with avalanches, storms, or simply sloppy with mud.  Oyster Dome trail is completely clear of snow.  There are a few blowdowns and some mud holes that need turnpikes, but on the whole the trails are in great shape.The trailhead is nothing more than a sign at the side of the road.  The trail starts right out gaining altitude.  At about a mile there is a junction to a lookout but if you stay on the main trail you do get to a nice park bench with an even better view.  The trail continues on a long loop around the first mountain, crossing some small drainages before beginning some serious rocky ascents.  The steepest is up Oyster Creek.  Along the way is a side trail to so-called "bat caves."  These are nothing more than a cluster of huge boulders that have fallen off of Oyster Dome above.  Maybe bats lived there once.  The rickety wood bridge to get there is exciting.  At the top of the long steep climb is cable junction (so named because of all the heavy steel cables left there from logging operations.  To the right is a very pleasant 15 minute level walk to Lily Lake.  This is a pretty, quiet spot rarely visited with lots of camping opportunities and even the remains of an old abandoned cabin.  To the left is the route up to the top of Oyster Dome.There are many other little side trails and exploration paths in these hills worth a try.  The best coffee afterwards is in a charming little bakery in Edison, just south on the Skagit plains.Absolutely worth all the effort.  Gorgeous day and we could see forever from the top.  There was compact snow and ice on the trail toward the top.  I put on my soft spikes when things started getting steeper and slipperier on the ascent and it made getting up and down a lot easier.  It's not impossible to do the hike without traction, but I did see many slips and falls.  You'll have a lot more fun with a little traction until things warm up and the trail clears.What a day for a hike!  The trail was in excellent condition with minimal snow.  There was some packed snow and ice at the very top, but there were plenty of bare spots to enjoy a snack and take in the view (which is incredible).  We stopped at the Bat Caves on the way back, but the whole area was pretty icy and decided it was a bit too treacherous to explore. Trail was in excellent shape, A little water, no snow. This is not a real easy hike for those of you that think a pair of skater shoes is adequate. Lovely day with overcast skies.Beautiful day with high clouds and sun breaks.  Started from trail head on Chuckanut Dr. at around 10:30am.  Lower PNW trail section in excellent shape, dry for the most part.From Samish connector to the Ice Cave there were several muddy spots and severl fast flowing creeks that were easy to cross.The trail marker for Lilly and Lizard lakes turn off near the top was missing.  There is a green picket there but its easy to miss.Lots of people on the trail.  But, we had the dome all to ourselves for a good 15 minutes.Chippie, Ike, Jesse the pup, and I were in desperation mode and needed a hike regardless of the weather. We decided on a trip to the Chuckanuts since the weather seemed to favor a short day. Oyster dome is a favorite of Chippie and me, and we've probably done it a zillion times between us, but Ike had never been there. Well, today was not to be the day for him to experience the usually fabulous views from the dome. Still, we had a great day in the wonderful coastal forest of the Chuckanuts. The trail is in decent shape, although it was a bit muddy which was to be expected on this day. The small creek crossings were more than I've seen in the past, but easily done. We hiked the loop taking Max's shortcut down to the hang glider's landing. The forest was wet and green and warm. Very nice, but a bit drippy. Foggy, but atmospheric. Amazingly enough I counted 15 cars at the trailhead on such a gray day. All in all, it was another nice day with great company. My dog and I were trying to will the sun to come out and clear up the mist, but there was no sunshine to be had, meaning that we had no views from the top.  However, it wasn't a wasted hike, as we saw some amazing bat caves on the way up as a little bypass before heading back up the main trail to the top, and got a nice little break on the way down to take in the view of a few shellfish farms below.  We will definitely be making it back to try this spot again when it's clear out!  And if you're hiking when it's wet out, be very careful near the bat caves...slippery slippery rocks.  Just a note, be aware that the final sign that shows the fork over to Oyster Dome isn't very clearly marked.  The rest of the trails' markers are very direct though.  There is also one tricky creek crossing.  There is a rickety bridge for hikers, but as it wasn't safe for my dog (holes between the planks), I let him go off leash and we forded the creek the old-fashioned way.  Headed out around 6:30am from the Chuckanut Trail with overcast skies.  Some muddy areas - no surprise here with all the recent rain.  Reaching the Oyster Dome brought me above the clouds with a bit of a view of the Olympics.  No one else was insight so enjoyed some quiet time before heading up to Lily and Lizard Lakes.  The clouds finally lifted providing views of the bay.  Enjoyable day and very happy to get an early start as I passed at least 40 people on my descent. At the top of Oyster Dome there are beautiful views across islands to the Olympic mountains while laying on large sunning rocks - as it rains in the Cascade mountains! However, the last mile to the top was a slippery, muddy, root/rock infested trail that detracted from the perfect day. Only 5 other cars parked along the road and I saw a relatively few number of hikers for this trail. The short side trail to the 'bat caves' leads to a huge bolder area at the base of Oyster Dome where you can crawl into 'caves' if you want to get wet and muddy (didn't see any bats). I took a picture and continued to the Dome. It's about 6 miles round trip and 1800? foot elevation gain. I would recommend waiting a few days/weeks? for this trail dry out before having a really enjoyable hike.  The Oyster Dome trail is clear and not too strenuous.  It begins right off Chuckanut Drive [highway 11] just south of The Oyster Bar restaurant.  Parking is along the side of the road.  There is a sign up on the trail but not where you can readily see it from the highway.  Careful crossing the street.  Cars whiz by there pretty fast around blind corners.The trail immediately climbs aggressively about 1000 feet.  In three spots it is very steep and rocky and badly in need of switchbacks.  At about 2 miles come to a sign pointing to a bridge to the bat caves.  I've been there.  They are not really caves and I never saw any bats.  Very steep up from here come to cable junction - so named because there are old logging cables everywhere.  There needs be a sign here that points left to Oyster Dome and right to Lily Lake.From cable junction it is about a half mile up to the Dome where there are spectacular views on a clear day.  Going the other way, it is about a half mile to Lily Lake which is a very charming place with good campsites.  Evidence of hungry beavers with very big teeth is everywhere.  They've felled huge trees and even took a sizeable bite out of a puncheon! We could not see any evidence of a beaver house, however.  There is a faint, unmarked and unmaintained loop trail around Lily Lake with lots of blowdowns, overgrowth, and sloughing. It's pretty much bushwhacking.  At the far end is a mysterious log shelter which looks quite new.On the way back we took the Oyster Road trail. It is signed from the regular trail about a half mile before the bat cave bridge.  It is overgrown and very steep, but gets you down to a road with signs that say "private road. hikers welcome." About two miles out on this road gets you back to highway 11 just about 100 yards from the parked cars.However to get to your car you have to pass The Oyster Bar.  They have restrooms there and limited espresso serice.  However it is a first class restaurant and the Samish Bay oysters on the half shell with New Zealand Sauvignon Blanc were an excellent way to celebrate a day of hiking and exploration.It was supposed to be a gorgeous day: sunny, warm, and clear, so we picked a hike with views. We didn't know much about Oyster Dome and didn't realize how crowded it could get, but as soon as we pulled up to the trailhead and saw all the cars we realized what we were in for. It actually wasn't that busy on the way up, but on the way down we passed at least 20 groups. It was a fine hike, although not one of my favorites. Too many people, and didn't really feel like we were "getting away." It made me realize I prefer hiking in the mountains rather than in the foothills.That said, this is not an easy hike. Even though it's in the foothills, it has some very steep sections. We were glad to have hiking poles. We started around 10 and made it there and back by 2 pm, which included a couple stops to make sure we were on the right trail (not every intersection is signed), as well as a stop at the top of the dome for lunch. One final note: the WTA directions are a bit misleading (or at least, we thought so). To us, it sounded like you go to the bat caves and then continue on in the same direction up to the dome. In reality, the bat caves are a side trip. When you're done at the caves, you need to go back the way you came and pick up the main trail again. Another warm hike on dirt during what has been a warm winter with not much snow. I wanted to get in some mileage and still get home in time to watch the Super Bowl. I'm getting a little tired of I-90 hikes and decided it was time to head north. I was out the door at 6:35 am. It was still dark and a little drizzly. The drive to within 15 miles of Bellingham goes surprisingly quickly. It is 74 miles from North Seattle to the trailhead. I took Exit 240 for Alger. A left then another quick left on Barrel Springs Road brought me to the signed dirt road on the right. Just a mile up the road brought me to the lower trailhead for Blanchard Mountain. I was the first car in the lot. It was just before 8:00 am when I got started.I repeated a trip I did on my first visit to Blanchard Mountain in 2005. I posted a map in that report and I'll add another link to it here. This time I did it clockwise. The trail starts a short way down the road from the parking lot. It's another 8/10 of a mile to the upper trailhead. This first trail is a nice route winding through forest. It has a number of spring flowers but even with the warmth there are none up yet. At the upper trailhead I found only one car.The Lily Lake Trail starts a short way down the road. It is a very gentle trail with a few long easy switchbacks to gain elevation. It is used extensively by horses and bicycles and was built at a very easy grade for them. The trail is bordered by miles of sword ferns. Millions of them. It is about as green as any trail. The dark low clouds really brought out the colors. One woman runner passed my coming down. She was the only person I was to see for the next three hours.There is one unmarked junction on the Lily Lake Trail. Left goes over to Max's Shortcut Trail. Right is the way I went. Both go up to Lily Lake in about the same distance. I stopped at the small pond looking for any traces of skunk cabbage. None are up so far. There are several sets of log benches along the trail. I had no need to rest. At long last the trail reaches the old railroad grade that heads right to Lizard Lake. This is the Pacific Northwest Trail. I turned left.In a short distance I met the upper end of Max's Shortcut. Next was the trail over to Lily Lake. I saved that for the return. The outlet of Lily Lake flows into a swampy area before it turns to a creek again and descends. The trail goes along the side of the swamp/creek. The swamp is filled with skunk cabbage in the spring. There shouldn't be any up in early February but this winter has been unusually warm. I ventured out into the goo and found a few skunk cabbage shoots just poking up. In about three weeks the there should be a riot of big green leaves and yellow spathes.The trail descends gently with old logging cables found in a number of places. It crosses the creek twice and soon reaches another unmarked junction. Left is the Oyster Dome trail down to Chuckanut Drive. Right is the trail over to the Oyster Dome viewpoint. In short order I was up to the first viewpoint. I could see down to the water but clouds were swirling all around. At the upper viewpoint I had an early lunch. I was surprised to find nobody else up there during my whole visit.I took a few minutes to head over to the high point. It's all forested but one spot had a view over to North Butte. It was in the clouds. Down I went as I retraced my route back to Lily Lake. This time I took the short trail to the lake. I stopped at the horse camp for a look down the lake. Next I headed along the short to the hiker camp and on. The trail has had some work since 2005 with a few new boardwalks. One freshly felled tree shows that beavers have been busy. The trail up to North Butte was drier and easier to follow than I remembered.The top of the butte is rock. The trail leads all the way up. I could just see Oyster Dome and not much else. The clouds were all around me. I went into the woods just below the top and found some really bright moss hanging on everything. The higher parts of the overall hike were very green with moss. That was the prime theme of my photos. On the way down I soon met the second person of the day. My watch battery had died on the drive up and I had no idea what time it was. He let me know it was 11:40. I could hardly believe that I had been on the trail for over 3 1/2 hours.I hiked past Lily Lake and turned left on the railroad grade. It's about a mile over to Lizard Lake. There is a junction near the lake. Right drops down the Alternate Incline Trail to a road above the upper trailhead. Left goes to Lizard Lake in just a minute or two. The trail goes right along the lake shore. There are a lot of skunk cabbage along the trail here. I noticed a few were popping up. I also went to the camp at the head of the lake. Here I found one skunk cabbage with a few leaves already.From the lake it's all down hill on the Alternate Incline Trail. On my 2005 visit the Incline Trail was still open It is now closed though both ends are easy to find. The big red "This Is Not A Trail" signs make the closed off trail easier to find. I had no interest in hiking a closed and very steep trail and stayed on the Alternate Incline Trail. It drops though some old second growth forest. In due time I came out on the gravel road. Here I met a group of four hikers. The road is much narrower than I recalled. Brush has narrowed it down and it is much more like a trail. It's still wide but not like it was. I passed two bikers along the road.At the upper trailhead I found four vehicles, less than I was expecting. All that was left was a quick jaunt down the trail to the lower trailhead. Down there I found four trucks with horse trailers and two cars. It was 1:30 when I finished. I covered about 11 miles with 2500' of gain and succeeded in being done be early afternoon. It's only about 1:15 to drive home, not much longer than from Snoqualmie Pass. I saw 11 people over 5 1/2 hours but only three during the first 4 1/2 hours. These trails make for easy snow free walking for most winters. I'm sure I'll be back in a year or two.40 photos have been posted at: http://www.hikingnorthwest.com. Go to "Trips-2010" on the left margin.We hiked up the old steep trail to Lizard and Lily Lake from Barrel Springs road, and from there connected with the trail over to the Oyster Dome. Probably about 20 people, and 10 dogs enjoying the views and the sun at the dome.  Looking down to the talus and boulder field below, ( the Bat Caves,, could see several more folks wandering around on the rocks.  Nice area to relax, and gawk out over the sound and islands,  usually crowded though.  We did sneak up here in December, when there was snow and ice, on the steep trail up from the Bat Caves, and only met two other folks.Hiked out the trail down to Chuckanut Drive, but took the turn off leading to the road end at the hang glider launch.   no big birds leaping off Having now been there, I can confirm that like Rattlesnake Ledge, which has no rattlesnakes, and Heather Lake, which has no heather, Oyster Dome has no oysters. What it does have, though, is lots of hikers. I saw at least a hundred people on this apparently wildly popular trail.At 9:45, when I started up the trail, there were only three cars at the trailhead and very few folks on the trail. On the way down, however, I felt like a fish swimming against the current of hikers on the way up. So if planning on this hike, get there early or avoid weekends like the plague.The trail itself is unusual for a couple of reasons. One, the tread is very soft (covered with Douglas Fir needles) and a pleasure to walk on. Loose rock on the treadway is almost nonexistent. Secondly, it is a trail where steep sections alternate with flat ones all the way to the top.The views from the summit down to Samish Bay are pretty spectacular, and quite a contrast from the usual alpine scenery.All in all, a pleasant hike if you can avoid the crowds.A pearl of lowland winter hiking. The first 1.5 miles is a fine trail with no problems. The last 1.5 miles is rugged, muddy, and has steep sections like any good moutain trail. Superb hike.Oyster Dome seems to be a popular destination right now - as it should be.  We started from Chuckanut Drive on the "bonus" elevation gain and mileage route.  After a 1000' feet of gain we decided on a clockwise loop at the trail junction.  From here there are 3 mandatory side trips and one optional side trip.  The elevation gain comes in clumps and after several big clumps, we went to the optional side trip - the rock outcrop at the glacier information sign.  This little bump is always easier to get up than down.  Then another clump or two of gain and we diverted to the "bat caves".  The new bridge across the creek is somewhat suspect and there were seveal use trails.  We stopped on a large slab for a quick snack and to search for some bats - none were found.  Then there were 2 more clumps of gain to get to the Oyster Dome lunch spot - another side trip.  The views of the San Juan Islands are quite dramatic from this point.  The Olympics were kind of visible but a marine layer and incoming clouds obscured them a little.  Apparently, on a really clear day, one can see the Blue Glacier on Mt Olympus from this spot.  Then it was back down to the main trail and up past the beaver pond area.  There was no evidence of recent beaver activity here but...  At the junction to the camp sites, we had another mandatory side trip to North Butte.  An eager beaver had toppled a reasonably large cedar tree and was working on another.  We ruined the solitude of a couple on the blob summit of North Butte and then we continued a short distance through the trees to one of my favorite views of Mt Baker.  It seems to be a very unique angle and includes views of Twin Peaks.  Some of the "trail" to North Butte is hard to follow and some is quite muddy but the views make it all worth while.From here we retraced our tracks back to the main trail and followed Max's Shortcut - I don't think it is really shorter - down and around to the hang glider launch point and more views of the Skagit Valley.  Since this area is also accessible by car, the atmosphere was festive.  Then it was down, down, down to finish the loop trip.  My tootsies were pretty sore and tender at the end of the day.A map of this area (in .pdf format) is available at www.pnt.org - the site for the Pacific Northwest Trail.  Many parts of our trip were on the PNT.After days of entertaining guests, eating cookies, drinking wine and being otherwise cooped up in the house, I was so ready for some fresh air and sunshine.  I headed up to Oyster Dome for my first visit and was not disappointed.  The PNT section of the trail is in excellent shape.  The Talus trail started to get a bit muddy and I had my Chihuahua with me as my hiking companion so I turned back from the top about 1/4 mile short and headed back to the viewpoint.  My furry friend and I shared a PB&J sandwich at the viewpoint and soaked in the view of all the islands and the gorgeous sun which was sitting low in the sky and blinding in the best OMG-hit-me-with-your-best-shot way, how-much-longer-'til-Summer sort of way.  In fact, between the sun and the fact that my body temp was elevated due to the climb, I almost began to think it was summer until I noticed that the sun was getting close to setting and it was 4pm.  I highly recommend this hike if you're up for some climbing.  It's a great choice for a winter walk. The trail to Oyster Dome starts out at sea level and switch backs you to the top.  It turned out to be a beautiful sunny day.  The views of the islands were spectacular, with the Olympics as the backdrop.This hike was harder than I expected. Although my expectations were that of an easy, wide-trail, day hike. The trail was pretty narrow, and very steep in some places, and I would recommend sturdy hiking shoes. Despite being ill-prepared, when we got to the top, it was definitely worth it. The panoramic view of the ocean, islands and hills was jaw-dropping, and well worth the hike. Mark led the crew to Oyster Dome, using the alternate route in Day Hiking North Cascades to make a loop trip. We exited at 240/Alger, turned left over the freeway, left again where it's signed Blanchard Mtn Trails, and left again for Samish Overlook, where there's an open gate in the roadway.  The road was narrow but fine for any car, and takes you to a big parking lot overlook with gorgeous views and the cleanest pit toilet I've ever experienced. I guess this is a hanggliding spot, but there wasn't any there yesterday.To make a loop onto Oyster Dome, we took the lower trail at the north end of the parking lot, and after a while you hook into the Oyster Dome trail and stay right. Stay right again at the next side trail, and continue up a popular, steep, rooty, rocky, slippery trail to Oyster Dome. Incredible views, lovely sunshine, and a ton of people up there including some young men who were rock climbing between there and the ledge below.From there instead of going back down the Oyster Dome main trail with the masses, we stayed left at that junction and continued on towards Lily Lake. There's a clearcut caused by beavers along the way, I've never see anything like it. Just beyond the left-hand turn to Lily Lake, look for a trail to the right that makes a hairpin turn off the main trail - that's Max's Shortcut and that's the way back to the car. There was no one on this trail, a huge departure from the main Oyster Dome trail, and what's weird is this trail is in such better shape! Well graded, well draining, a pleasant walk through the woods. Overall we think it was about 6 miles, and we think it cuts about 1000 ft off the 2000 ft elevation gain you experience if you do Oyster Dome from Chuckanut Drive. Great hike!  (Trillium blooming, some mosquitoes but not really troublesome.)What a day to play hookey!  I took the day off before I had a destination picked.  In the end I chose to head back to Oyster Dome and hopefully not miss the summit trail.  And to my surprise I also took the day off for this trip exactly one year ago, to the day.  Once again it did not disappoint!I found myself parking on Chuckanut drive around 9am, earlier than I'd planned due to light traffic.  Already it was gloriously warm and I started up in short sleeves.  Walking on dirt trail with green leaves, ferns, and flowers felt great!  I kept a slow pace since I had so much time, poking around every flower I saw.  At the overlook I busied myself chasing ladybugs and just enjoying the sun.  It was so warm I changed my zip off pants to shorts!  Apologies to the ship captains: that bright flashing white light wasn't a lighthouse, it was just me wearing shorts for the first time this year.Just like last year I took Max's Shortcut towards Oyster dome.  Lots of trillium, fiddle heads and wood violet all through here.  Before long I arrived at Lily lake.  I headed towards the lake and bumped into another NWhiker: Schroder!  Actually I failed to recognize him, a fellow funny pages resident, perhaps because he didn't have his piano.  Now in possession of some helpful trail advice I continued on and up to North Butte.  It was already claimed so I snapped a photo and headed back down.This time I made the correct choice and took the unsigned turn off to Oyster dome, which I'd missed last year.  Great views from the top!  Blue skies, a nice breeze, and the warmest temperatures I've found this year.  Someone had pitched a tent here and was spending the night on the ledge.  I ate my lunch and continued down the connector trail.  By now lots of other hikers were on their way up, many looking winded and asking how much further to the dome.  I kept on going, stopping for occasional photos, and made it back to my car around 2:45. Trail notes: no snow!  Trails were clear of blowdowns.  Some muddy patches near Lily Lake.  Lots of trash along the way; consider bringing a bag to pack some out.Photo set here: http://www.pbase.com/billcat/oysterdome2Wow, leave it to the first real spring day for hikers to come out of the woodwork. Arrived at the trailhead just before noon and had to park about a half mile from it because there were so many cars. The trail was in great shape until just after the Y where you split off up to the dome. Here it was muddy on and off all the way to the top. People have started making their own trails around the bad areas because of it. Nothing else to report though. Great hike!  Oyster Dome, on Blanchard Mountain above Samish Bay, is not the place to go to find solitude, especially on a sunny April Sunday. The trail is loaded with old folks, youngsters and students from nearby WWU, even though this is a moderately strenuous trail with lots of "up" to it, at least for the first mile. But when you get to the views at Oyster Dome, you'll understand why all those people huffed and grunted to get there.After soaking in expansive views of the San Juans and the Olympics you can have a more peaceful and secluded hike back down if you make a loop hike by proceding on to Lily Lake, a short one mile from the Dome, then descending by way of the Pacific Northwest Trail. Be sure to save time to watch the hang gliders and parasailers launching off Samish Overlook towards the valley below.On this day we found over 40 people at Oyster Dome. We had Lily Lake to ourselves for the 30 minutes we were there. Doing the loop only adds about 45 minutes hiking time and is a pleasent, quit trail that is an easier descent than retracing your steps down the Dome trail.No need to repeat several excellent reports on this superb winter hike, but a couple of further details might be helpful to someone ...Fo anyone doing the classic loop hike from Chuckanut Drive (one way via the Samish Connector and the Oyster Dome Trail, the other way via the PNT through Max's Cutoff), the only non-trivial snow on the trail is for about 100 yards on either side of the east end of Max's Cutoff.  It is quite passable - yak trax not needed, though poles are helpful.  Except perhaps for the aforementioned snow (and accompanying muddy spots) plus a few no-problem deadfalls, the trails seem to be in better than usual condition.  The usual mudholes on the Oyster Dome trail are drier than usual for February.I think this hike is being increasingly (and deservedly) discovered; I think we saw more people on the trail than I ever remember before.Oyster Dome off of Chuckanutt Drive offers many options to explore.  It is the beginning of the Pacific Northwest Trail which goes from Cape Alava all the way to Glacier National Park in Montana! (how you hike across Puget Sound is not very clear).  The trailhead starts right off the highway and is not obvious. It is just south of an isolated brown wooden restaurant.  Parking is alongside the road.  The trail climbs steadily for two miles up a very steep slope. At the first junction is a sign and an opportunity to go right a half mile to a lookout. Go left another mile or so to a sign for "bat caves."  They are not really caves but the dark undersides of mammoth boulders that make up the avalanche field below Oyster Dome.  Nice view of the Dome from the bottom here and a cute little bridge that is actually pretty study.  A half mile straight up comes to another junction.  Left is Oyster Dome itself - a massive bare rock great for distant views over the San Juan Islands or just sunning yourself.  Right is a very easy trail to Lily Lake which is still snowed over but very pretty.  Somebody cut down some trees along the lake shore and left them across the trail.  Over all the trails are in good shape year round, but there are a couple of stretches in the third mile that are very aggressive and washed out.  This is a popular trail on a sunny day.  Wildlife included a couple taking turns carrying the backpack, an 11 month old with her two mommies, a herd of unleashed dogs with their respective herd of unleashed humans, and a man who actually asked for directions!  Go figure.    Started from Chuckanut Drive around lunch. Didn't see the the trailhead on the first pass coming from south, only after parking and backtracking a bit on foot. Given that this was an (increasingly) nice Saturday it wasn't surprising to see cars parked for along a long stretch of the road (and there's a popular restaurant there, too). The trail was mostly dry, with a few slightly muddy patches further up, and even a bit of compacted snow just near the top. Crossed several small streams, only one of which required some attention in order to avoid wet feet. Quite a bit of traffic on the trail, but there were never more than three or four other couples at the top during the half an hour or so we were there. Did a small detour on the way down to see the bat caves, and wasn't sure if the cracks we found under some of the large boulders were all there is to see.Started this hike early on Friday morning with three other pals - hit the trailhead at about 9:00AM, reaching the summit at 10:45AM. Checked out the bat caves on the way up, but it being so cold didn't see any bats. The view from the top was awesome with partly cloudy/clear weather. There is a little bit of snow on the final mile or so up the trail, but nothing to challenging. The spots that snow melted on the trail did make some muddy areas, but nothing out of the ordinary. The top made an awesome spot for lunch, and I brought my 'pocket rocket' stove so I could make some tea and enjoy the view. I think this is a great hike over all, especially since it is still pretty cold out and you cannot expect to summit much without crampons or snow shoes. The view out over the San Juans is great.Hiked Oyster Dome with my dog from the Chuckanaut Drive side.  I was the first car there and the trailhead was a little tricky to find without the big lineup of cars, but it's just north of the 10 mile marker.  There was a little bit of snow on the trail just before the steep climb up to Oyster Dome, but it was fairly soft even early in the morning and I had no problems getting through it.  View from the top was gorgeous!  I tried to go to the bat caves, but my dog couldn't make it across the bridge.  It was fine for a human, though!We hiked up to Oyster Dome via the Lily Lake Trail from Blanchard Hill Trailhead. There were no problems driving up to the trailhead, but snow still covered much of the upper parking area. The first two miles of the trail were in good shape.  As the trail approached the junction with the Incline Trail, snow appeared, first patches then a continuous pack of 1 to 2 feet deep.Thick snow covered the trail around the Lily Lake basin, with stretches of frozen deep postholes difficult to walk in. The snow became thinner again near the Oyster Dome trail junction. Some snow remained on the Oyster Dome Trail around the creek crossing, but the final climb to the top was bare and dry. Summer-like conditions prevailed on the summit, and the view was magnificent. A happy crowd of Bellinghamsters, most of whom hiked here via the route from Chuckanut Drive, were laying in the sun and restocking their depleted supplies of Vitamin D.We returned via Max's Shortcut, which is no shortcut at all to the Blanchard Hill trailhead--it takes about 15 minutes longer than the Lily Lake trail. The first quarter mile of the Shortcut near Lily Lake was buried in snow. After the trail crossed onto the south side of Blanchard Hill, the snow disappeared for the most part and the going was easy. The crossover trail that connects Max's Shortcut with the Lily Lake trail was kind of annoying, featuring a tiring series of ups and downs due to tread slumping.  It would be nice if this trail were rebuilt. There were a few blowdowns to contend with on Max's Shortcut and the crossover trail, nothing serious.Never made it to the trailhead this day (1/7) as the heavy rains submerged several roads into and out of Blanchard.  Haven't been back since but I'm hoping everyone is alright and damage to homes isn't so bad.  If anyone reading this knows the current road conditions on Chuckanut Dr. (SR11) please advise.  Thanks and good luck to everyone affected by the floods.Parked on Chuckanut drive side. We started out on a forecasted rain day that was really clear. Could see the Olympics from the truck all the way up to the dome. The trail becomes snow covered about a mile in, well before the split. We continued up to the left at the split, steep side. Could have used yak traks for traction, no post holing. After reaching the top and "enjoying" the wind and a very quick lunch with amazing views of the islands, headed down. Decided to try "Max's Shortcut" to get back. No one had been down past Lillie Lake, post holing almost instantly. Decided to return the way we came instead. Made it down with only a few slips. Dogs loved it!The clouds lifted enough by midday to enjoy the superb view from Oyster Dome. Deep woods flowers blooming, and even a patch of columbine shortly before the branch-off of the Samish Connector from the Pacific Northwest Trail.We hiked up from Chuckanut Drive. Trail conditions about as good as they ever are, except that the fairly numerous mudholes on the Samish Connector, the Oyster Creek trail, and the east end of Max's Shortcut are still pretty much in their wintertime morass mode. The situation on Max's Shortcut is not helped by the illegal motorbikes that have used the trail recently.People who have limited agility, or less agility than they used to have, might be happier heading to Oyster Dome by the longer PNT route (or perhaps from the I-5 side), on constructed trails. The short route via the Samish Connector and Oyster Creek trail is essentially a heavily-used way trail, with lots of ""rocks-and-roots"" steep and somewhat slippery sections (slippery at least in winter or in wintry Junes like this one); not a problem for the average hiker but perhaps less enjoyable for those more comfortable on a ""real"" trail.This was a Mountaineer's Hike. Started hiking at 7:35 a.m. Ascended the PNT Trail, then Samish Bay Trail with a side trip to Oyster Dome. No one up here at this early hour. Continued to Lily Lake and more exploring. Returned via the PNT via Samish Overlook where we watched the gliders. Stats were 2,750' and 13 miles. Trail had mud and water especially on the Samish Bay Trail and around Lily Lake, but less than expected given this wet spring. Most of the tread is in excellent conditon. This is really a grand loop with beautiful forest, a creek, lakes and a variety of views. Signing is marginal, but you can get an excellent map on the internet - www.pnt.org/images/map-blanchard .gif which is far superior the 7.5 topos. An alternative return can be made using the Lily Lake Trail which merges back into the PNT with little change in the stats. Go early to get a parking spot and to beat the crowds which flock to Oyster Dome on weekends. Logging starts in the next few years so go soon before the chainsaws arrive.May 17th hiked into Lizard lake with Troop 36 BSA. Trail in great shape, all blow downs removed. Met a few hikers and horseback riders. Hiked from lower parking lot to lake , 5 miles. We set up camp did a little fishing then took off for Lilly Lake, Oyster Dome and the Bat Caves. Trails all clear and in good shape. Sun was out and the view from the Oyster Dome amazing. Watched the boats out in the bay and some rock climbers, then went in search of the Bat Caves. Spent over an hour crawling around the large caves near the bottom. Hiked back up the hill and returned to Lizard lake. Hiked out in the warm sunshine Sunday. Trail in great shape not to many bugs yet fishing good.Our itinerary took us up the Oyster Dome Trail, then east towards Lily Lake to catch the Pacific Northwest Trail back down the mountain. Although the Oyster Dome Trail is more rugged (lots of rocks and roots to walk over) and steep than the PNW Trail, both were well maintained and easy to follow. We had to walk through several patches of mud and easily crossed a few streams. The views from Oyster Dome and the Samish Overlook were spectacular, but the crowds on the trail diminished our experience somewhat. We arrived at the trailhead at 9:30 AM, and there were already several cars parked along the side of the road. We ran into two other groups of hikers at the Bat Caves. When we arrived at the top of Oyster Dome at about 12:30, there were already ten other people up there eating lunch and enjoying the view. During our descent, we had to move to the side of the trail a few times to allow mountain bikers to pass, and more than a few piles of manure reminded us that this is a multi-use trail. The most annoying things were the numerous unleashed dogs. On two separate occasions a random dog came running up from behind us and scared my wife. Almost every group of hikers brought their animal, and of all of them only one woman had hers on a leash.Stepping out from the car and onto the trail for this one I was struck by a very curious sensation - things were colorful! Greens, blues, browns, yellows, even reds. I felt like I'd walked into a Skittles commercial after so many monochromatic snow trips. Hoisting a light backpack and trodding along without gaiters or snowshoes gave an old, almost forgotten familiar feeling. My last trip without snow seems a distant memory. The crunch of dirt under boots felt great. After a quick dirt ball fight and a few mud-angels we had the euphoria worked out of our system and onward we went.The skies were grayer than forecast and it was cooler than expected. I'd cleaned up my SLR to haul along for this one. Not too many big views so along the way I practiced my Quarktography (""Quark-tog-raff-ee"" N. photographing interesting small objects, usually plants and flowers, close to the ground and from odd angles.) We found some nice fiddle-heads, some wood violet, a few emerging bleeding heart, and I spotted my first trilium of the year. I was now convinced spring is here.We paused for a look at Samish overlook, then headed up Max's shortcut towards Lily lake. It was chilly here so we kept our speed up to stay warm. In awhile we emerged at the junction near Lily lake. Our routefinding here began to unravel. We were following Karen Syke's Hike of the week directions and a map of Blanchard mountain. Her route description was for the opposite direction and the map seemed misleading, making us believe the route up was from the Talus cave trail. We bypassed the Lily lake turn off, later to regret it.The Bat caves are reached after a very steep downhill section, then crossing a rickety bridge built on two small fallen trees. Someone helpfully scrawled ""cross at own risk"" into the first plank to boost our confidence. It seemed fairly sturdy and we made it. But at the bat caves we could clearly see our error looking up at the cliff towering over us. We didn't feel like backtracking though. I went a little further to peek into a cave before heading back. There's a warning sign here disclaiming pretty much everything under the sun that could happen including ""speleophobia"". It's not often I learn a new word on a hike.We continued downhill and climbed onto a big rock with a nice view out towards the sound. By now the clouds had lifted and it was warming nicely. After a nice break we pushed on down the connector trail and again met the main trail for the final descent back to the car, and onward to tulips.Oyster dome photos: http://www.pbase.com/billcat/oysterdome/Tulip photos: http://www.pbase.com/billcaat/tulips2008/Got to trail head about 11:30 - plenty of parking. Trail is snow free. A few small blow downs and a bit of mud, but no major problems. The view makes it worth while. Trail is full of folks wearing killer cotton and carrying nothing....Who would have thunk? Wanting to avoid the craziness anywhere near a mountain pass, Jim K and I figured that heading north to Oyster Dome -just a couple of miles as the crow or seagull flies from Puget Sound - would mean little, if any snow. As soon as we took Exit 240 off of I-5 and headed west towards the trailhead (turn left on Barrel-something road - less than a mile from the freeway; then you turn right in .6 miles on the Blanchard Hill Road) there was slippery snow on the road. We opted to go only about a mile or so up the road to the lower parking lot, since there was probably about a 1/2 foot of snow on the road and, basically, we are wussies. The weather was predicted to be scattered showers basically through the day. Well, there were some clouds around - but it continued to clear and was a beautiful day. It was about 34 degrees when we started at the lower trailhead about 9:45 a.m. There were two other guys who showed up - they had parked further down the road, not wanting to get stuck in the snow higher up. You walk about 300' feet up the road to the actual start. Right from the beginning, there was a lot of snow on the trail. It's about a mile walk from the lower parking lot via the trail to the upper parking lot - that was pretty much snow covered - probably just as well that we hoofed it to here. We turned right at the sign to head toward the Incline trail (planned to make this a loop and would come back the Lily/Lizard Lake route). The start of our outbound route would be on road and would continue about a mile - only saw ski tracks - no one else had been along here for awhile. It already was starting to be an absolutely glorious day although we would spend most of the day in the trees - this would not have been one of Trail Pair/K's favorite routes! lol We reached the trailhead to start up the Incline/Alternate Incline trail - it's a pretty obvious left turn off of this logging road. You don't run into the actual trail juncture between Incline and Alternate Incline until you are about 50 yards up the trail. The snow is pretty substantial right away. We had decided not to take our snowshoes - thinking that the snow ""couldn't be THAT deep"" hmmm (for more pictures - go to www.nwhikers.net for the Oyster Dome report) We continued our trek - heading through heavily flocked trees - that were occasionally - no - frequently dripping or dropping snow-bombs on us. I had never been on this side of Oyster Dome - only hiked it from the Chuckanut side. Jim had only been this way once - and that wasn't in snow - and, we conveniently left the map in the car. So we weren't absolutely sure of the route - and we were pretty much breaking trail the whole way. All was fine, except for the time when Jim was sure we had missed the turn to Lizard Lake - but there hadn't been any trail markers. Not to let a crummy little trail sign stop us - we headed out on what looked to be a possible trail/old railroad grade - well, that turned into about a 1/2 mile slog through nearly waist deep (at least for me - and I was in the lead) snow. We abandoned this plan fairly quickly and headed back to the main trail and continued on - even though it didn't seem as steep as Jim remembered it. Finally, we ran into some trail signs that answered our questions about ""Where the heck are we?"" So, we decided to take the Lizard Lake trail - good decision. We returned to the main trail again and headed to Lily Lake - we had yet to see any sign that said anything about Oyster Dome. Undaunted, we continued on towards Lily - passing a sign that identified Max's short cut - but we weren't headed in that direction - we headed to Lily. After a quick visit we connected back to the main trail - where we finally saw a sign that gave us some hope that we were on the right trail. We crossed a creek once and then came to an unmarked junction - the trail coming up from the left (West) was the trail from Chuckanut. Fortunately, the trail ahead up to Oyster Dome was broken by others - so I was off duty. We crossed the creek again and started heading up - not too steep - and probably a 1/2 mile from the junction - but here is what we were waiting for - breaking out of the trees into a wonderful overlook - looking to the south and west. Spectacular. There was one solo woman (on her way down) and three folks/two dogs just getting ready to head down. All four had come up from the Chuckanut side. We enjoyed the views and the great weather - had our lunch - by now it was about 1:45 p.m. - and then decided to head back down. On our way, we passed a whole bunch of folks - in varying kinds of attire - heading up. Lots of tennis shoes; even a guy in knee-length shorts. I doubt that anyone expected this much snow at the top - but the trail was well-beaten and the snow was still soft enough so it wasn't slick (if it gets cold tonight, it will be awful!) We decided to head back to the Lily Lake junction and take what we believed to be the loop back down to the upper parking area. It seemed to be right - but we started to get concerned when the route continued to head west - instead of east like we thought it should. Finally, two women were coming up the trail and said that we were on the right route - but we were still doubtful - because we could see Puget Sound! We were really getting a little concerned. But, after about 2.5 miles the trail took a hairpin turn east and we felt a little more assured. The trail also started losing snow - and there was little snow on the trees by now. As we got closer to upper parking lot, we got one last great view to the south. It did look like some weather was moving in - maybe today turned out to be the better day of the weekend after all. We got back to the upper parking lot - there were now two cars there - regular ol'cars - they had no trouble getting up the road. The trek back from the upper lot to the lower lot seemed to take forever - but we were back to the car before 4:00 p.m. A great choice on a day when other snow options weren't as promising. And, Gus' new haircut seemed to keep the snowballs to a minimum! Stats (only a guess - but fairly reliable) 11 miles; 1800' gain. Great day!!Finally, a sunny day! To take advantage of the rare warming rays, we hiked to Oyster Dome on Blanchard Mountain. From the upper Blanchard trailhead, we walked the logging road to the Incline Trail, then followed that steep trail up the hill. The Incline Trail was in poor condition with numerous blowdowns, mudholes, and running water on the tread. In fact, the entire Blanchard Mountain seemed saturated with water, with creeks running just about everywhere. There was much more snow than usual on the upper part of the the mountain, one to two feet in places.The Incline Trail eventually leveled out and followed an old logging railroad grade, passing a turnoff to Lizard Lake and later, Lily Lake. Heavy gloppy snow and frequent mudholes covered the trail around Lily Lake. You will need well-sealed boots if you want to keep your feet dry around here. The Oyster Dome side trail was relatively dry. As usual, a crowd of happy hikers festooned the summit, enjoying the sun and fantastic vista over the Puget Sound and San Juan Islands.We returned via Max's Shortcut, which was muddy but free of blowdowns. Eventually this trail connected to the main Lily Lake Trail, which in turn led us to the parking area. All in all, a nice day of hiking despite all the mud.Oyster Dome has some large blowdown in the middle third of the trail but no bushwacking required. A nice workout as always.Lower section of the trail (PNT portion) has been cleared of blowdowns. Upper portion still has some, including a fairly annoying one about 2/3 of the way through the hike. No other obstacles except a little mud.First training outing for the Mt. Rainier climb which I am doing for Big City Mountaineers Summit for Someone program. www.bigcitymountaineers. It was a good uphill on the old PNT to Oyster Dome with a cold fog and little views at the Oyster Dome. A few blow downs, but nothing major. Made it back to the car and decided to hoof it up to the Hanglider viewpoint. A lot of big trees down, but the path is clear to the viewpoint. Thanks trail crew! The sun came out and the views were much better than earlier and there many people of all ages enjoying the day. If you want to help more people enjoy the outdoors, make a donation to my climb at https://ssl.charityweb.net/bcm/summit07/donaldjenkins.htmYour donation will help inner city kids go on 8 day backpacking or canoeing trips and it just might change their life. Any tips for climbing Mt. Rainier would also be appreciated.Hiking in the wettest convergence zone in March with 70% chance of rain? Why not? Oyster Dome is a very nice workout in spring when the mountain roads are still dicey. It offers a good 7 mile round trip workout, nice views over Samish Bay toward Anacortes and the San Juans, and many optional trails and loops. The Oyster Dome trail is the western terminus of the Pacific Northwest trail that snakes through the wilderness all the way to Montana!This end, however, is poorly marked. To get there, exit I-5 at the Chuckanut exit and travel 10 miles. When the road leaves the flat farmland to wind along the coast, look for Oyster House Manor. The next restaurant is Oyster Bar & Grill. That is about 50 yards too far. Go back to the small turnout and see the trail abruptly climbing from the road.The trail ascends steeply up the ridge and is in very good shape for the first two miles to lookout junction. The lookout is a quick 15 minutes to the right and worth the view. The left trail climbs steadily for one mile upward and is clogged with many serious blowdowns. There's lots of work for sawyers up there. Cross Oyster creek and arrive at the sign for the Bat Caves to the left. I continued right up a steep 500 feet to the top of the hill where lots of old steel cable is lying around. Along the way is an informational sign about glaciers. After the cable mound is a small creek and a quick ascent to the Oyster Dome, a little under 2000 feet elevation gain from the trailhead. We made it in 2.5 hours, slowed down considerably because of the blowdowns.This is a good winter hike and a good leg workout. On a clear day, the views from the top show both Anacortes and Bellingham and many the islands dotting the straits.Half of Bellingham (and their dogs) was up at Oyster Dome on this gloriously sunny Sunday. I started hiking at the upper Blanchard Mountain traihead, ascended via the Incline Trail and decended on Max's Shortcut. All trails were in good shape and free of blowdown. Some ice and snow lingered on the summit of the mountain. Lily Lake was frozen solid.Trail muddy with several blowdowns, a few wet spots to cross. Small amount of snow higher up. Very dark in the forest on a cloudy/drizzly/foggy day. Avoid horse poop.The view from the top of Oyster Dome is beautiful! To get there, take I-5 to exit 231 and continue on Chuckanut Drive until milepost 10. Parking is off to the left hand side and the trailhead is on your right. The trail starts off steep and seems to continue that way. To get to the top of Oyster Dome, hike all the way up until you see a big tree on your right with a sign that says 'protect Blanchard Mountain' on it, at this point, take a left and the trail goes to Oyster Dome. The view of the San Juan islands from the top of Oyster Dome is just amazing!Distance- 6 miles RTElevation gain- 2000 ftTime- 1.5 hours up and 1 hour and 5 minutes downDrive- 65 miles from my North Seattle homeMy buddy Skippy and I decided to do this hike hoping for a little better weather than we might find in the Cascades. It proved to be a great choice. We took the main route up from Chuckanut Drive and headed to the Dome for lunch. Fine weather, but a little cold and windy at the top. The trail is a bit muddy, but not bad. We then hiked over to Lily Lake and on to North Butte and it's many interesting viewpoints. It was mostly clear by this time and the views were fabulous as usual until we looked over to Lookout Mt. which has been shaved recently. It has been abused greatly with not much forest left. We then proceeded to Max's Shortcut to make a nice loop trip. This is a great segment of trail which is especially beautiful in the afternoon when this west facing slope has filtered sunlight shining on the gorgeous moss covered trees. Perfect! The bad news: this area on the lower section of Max's Shortcut is scheduled to be logged soon as well as other portions of Blanchard. This is a unique area of coastal forest with it's own special beauty. Don't let it happen. Go see it now and then look at the website: blanchardmountain.org to see what you can do.Took Off from Chuckanut drive, Highway 11, at the trailhead just south of oyster creek. Up and up to the first junction with some great views of the San Juan Islands. Took a right at the junction and went up some more on increasingly rough trail. Roots, mud, water and a few blowdowns make this trail look like it needs some wta lovin. Took a detour on the Talus trail and checked out the bat caves. These huge rocks that have fallen from the side of Oyster Dome dwarf the hiker and make you wonder if any more are poised to come down while you are standing there. Back to the main trail and another side trip to the top of the dome for some good views of the islands sprawling out among calm seas. Down to the trail for a little more up and then dropping a little into the bowl of Lilly lake. Skirting the lake to the right brings you to camp sites and beyond that a trail to the top of Blanchard mountain and some great views of clouds today but if clear all the way to Anacortes and more expansive views of islands as far as the eye can see. A quick trip down and over to Lizard lake brings some nice campsites and a tranquil mountain lake studded with tree stumps from turn of the century logging. Returning on the more easterly trail brings you to a nice lookout connected to Barrel Springs Road, another access to this area, then down to connect to the trail back to the highway for a nice lollipop loop. The way I went was about a 12 mile round trip and 1200 feet elevation gain but many options are available for a shorter or longer hike. This is a unique area where the mountains reach out and touch the sea. Wonderful rock formations are the norm and gazing over the islands while standing at this elevation is a thing that can only be experienced in the Chuckanut mountain range. This area is scheduled to be logged in the very near future so get out here soon and see why so many are trying to save it from this ultimate peril.A break in the weather, avalanche danger in the mountains, and cabin fever all combined led us to choose this loop to Oyster Dome. We drove to the Hang Glider Launch site at the end of the Blanchard Mountain Rd. off Barrel Springs Rd. near Alger to begin. (You can start from Chuckanut Drive, giving an extra 600' of elevation gain, but my recent knee trouble made me want to minimize steep descents.) We like to do this loop clockwise, leaving north from the HG parking lot on the PNT trail, giving us a steep climb to Oyster Dome and a more knee friendly but longer route back to the car using Max's Shortcut from Lily Lake. Clouds moved in and out as we ate lunch on Oyster Dome, with the sun peaking through only occasionally. Heading over to Lily Lake, we found the 2 big beaver dams have been breached, leaving the trail a little drier than normal, but also creating some interesting washouts. This route is usually low on mud (compared to other trails in the Chuckanut/Blanchard area) but the recent rains have left even this one quite muddy. How green the sword fern and mahonia are; makes you appreciate our mild winter climate!Note- Part of this loop, the lower section of Max's Shortcut, is due to be logged soon. If you want to see it in good condition, go soon!Enjoyed a fine 9 mile hike to Oyster Dome in the Blanchard Mountain area of the Chuckanuts. The countless miles of trails in this area create a fantastic venue for winter hiking, or any time of year for that matter. My buddies and I started the hike at the Blanchard trailhead, which you get to by driving I-5 north of Mt Vernon to the Alger exit (turn left at the stop sign at the end of the ramp, turn left again onto Barrel Springs Road, right onto the dirt Blanchard Hill road--signs mark the last two turns). Fine wintery weather greeted us at the trailhead parking area; crisp blue skies, bright sun nicely balancing the freezing air temperature. From the upper trailhead, we walked past a gate and followed a gently climbing logging road a mile or so to the unsigned start of the Incline Trail. Then we followed that aptly named path as it climbed the forested slope, gaining about a thousand feet. Eventually the trail reached an old logging railroad grade and the steep grade eased off. The next mile of the trail was exceptionally fine, as it followed the RR grade on a nearly level traverse, passing mossy cliffs cut into the steep hillside. We passed the side trail to Lizard Lake, then reached a major junction with another trail that descends to the trailhead where we parked. There was inadequate signage at the junction. In fact, signage is poor throughout the area, which is owned by the DNR; there's a high potential to get lost--bring a good map.We continued the hike by heading toward Lily Lake. Set in a shady basin at almost 2000', this area around the lake always seems to be icy in winter. This time, conditions were especially so. Abundant ice and snow lingered on the trail, making for slick footing. The lake was so hard-frozen that we saw a guy boldly walking in the middle of the lake to do some fishing in a hole he had cut through the ice. Beyond the lake, the trail, still following an old RR grade, began a gradual descent. Perhaps a half mile beyond Lily Lake, the RR grade abruptly ended and the trail began a steep descent as it headed toward a trailhead on Chuckanut Drive. Here we found the junction with the Oyster Dome side trail ( unsigned, as usual). We followed that rough path as it dipped to a creek crossing, then made the short climb to the brink of Oyster Dome.The view from the Dome was spectacular that day. Perched atop a five hundred foot cliff, we could see the Olympic Mountains, Vancouver Island, and countless San Juan Islands large and small, set in the sparkling waters of Puget Sound 2000' below. The calm, sunny conditions allowed us to linger for an hour in comfort. As usual we were not alone; a crowd of happy hikers and dogs shared the view, but there was lots of room on the ledge for everyone.After a reluctant departure from Oyster Dome, we headed back the way we came to Lily Lake. There, we decided to make a side trip to another vista point on the north side of Blanchard Mountain. This little-used trail began at the hiker's camping area at Lily Lake. The faint path made a short climb to a saddle, then continued the ascent to a rocky spur north of Blanchard Mountain's high point. We found that no single viewpoint here matched that of Oyster Dome, but the views were nevertheless pretty fine and quite different in perspective. One spot provided a good look at Mt Baker and frozen Lizard Lake. Certainly this area is far more private than Oyster Dome, which every Bellingham resident (Bellinghamsters?) knows about. We returned via the standard trail back to the trailhead, which descends the mountain in a long, moderately-graded three miles. This trail was in good condition (don't know who's doing the maintenance), generally free of snow and ice, and not too muddy. As a frequent WTA volunteer, I did notice that the drainage features rated about a ""C"" grade...needs work. The Incline Trail's drainage was better (I'd give that trail a ""B"").Just before reaching the end of the trail, we enjoyed the sight of the sun setting beyond the Puget Sound, which reflected a brilliant, firey red glow through the forest. A nice finale to a great day of hiking.Good Friday is a holiday in my business and I usually take advantage of it to find solitude on the trail. The mountains looked to be wet and I wanted something other than Tiger Mountain so I finally headed to a place that I have meant to explore for years. Oyster Dome sits very near Puget Sound about a dozen miles south of Bellingham. The trailhead is only about 3 miles from exit 240, Alger, on Interstate 5. I filled up my gas tank at 145th and Greenwood in North Seattle and it was 70.5 miles to the trailhead. I found a map on the internet which showed a lower and higher trailhead. I figured I would start at the lower one to maximize the distance. The lot is large enough for a few dozen cars and a new looking bathroom is on the site. I was ready to go by 8:30. I looked for the trail near the big Blanchard Hill Trail sign. A bermed old road started out. It soon ended and a rough boot path headed on. After scrambling down a steep slope and reaching a wide dry stream bed I concluded this was not a trail. Back I went. I decided since there was no trail I would drive up to the upper trailhead.A short drive and I saw...the real trailhead. Back I went and I now walked the road to the trail. I should have looked closer at the map. I sign at the parking lot would have been useful. The real trail is quite nice. It is mostly on old roads narrowed to nice trail. After about a mile I reached the upper trailhead. There is a sign pointing the way I came but no signs pointing to where the trail continued. I again should have consulted the map. I didn't. I headed up the road to my right. I reached a gate in a short distance. It was locked. I continued on. Soon it was apparent that this was not the way to find the Lily Lake Trail. I knew the road would reach the Incline Trail so that was my new plan.About a mile along the road I saw an obvious trail on the left. There was no sign visible from the road but a short way in there were signs. The Incline Trail went to the left and the Incline Alternate Trail went right. The Incline is straight up and the Alternate is more gently graded. I went right on the Alternate. There were a lot of signs of old logging on this trail. Wire cables were especially prevalent. After a steady climb the route moved onto an old railroad grade. The two trails came back together and soon reached the higher railroad grade. A sign pointed right 1/4 mile to Lizard Lake and left to Lily Lake. I turned right. Very quickly I reached Lizard Lake. It is not large but is a nice lake. I saw skunk cabbage along the shore. I would see much more of it this day.The map showed a route from Lizard Lake to Lily Lake. I took a tiny boot path uphill and reached a flat area where the route disappeared. The distance to Lily Lake was short but I chose not to do a solo cross country bushwhack. I dropped back to Lizard Lake and was soon back at the top of the Incline Trail. This time I took the railroad grade on the route to Lily Lake. The next intersection had a trail going left and one right. The left was unsigned and the right said Lily Lake. The left turned out to be the Lily Lake Trail I had missed at the upper trailhead and would be my return route.More nearly level travel and I reached a small lake on the right. Another trail turned left and it was signed ""Max's Shortcut"". Just beyond was another sign pointed right to Lily Lake. I scanned the map and pinpointed my position. I decided to continue straight ahead towards Oyster Dome. On my left was a wide muddy area with lots of skunk cabbage. As with the others, they had few leaves but there were many bright yellow spathes. At the next intersection the left route was signed for the Dome Trail. I dropped down and crossed a creek then began the climb to the top of Oyster Dome. At the viewpoint I saw one couple and heard another close by. I said ""hi"" and the couple did not even acknowledge my presence from 10 feet away. Oh well... I headed up to the highest point which had a view out to the north. I could see North Butte from there. It was 12:00 and time for lunch.I then dropped back to the viewpoints and found a place out of sight of the others. The clouds hampered the view a little but it was still impressive. I will need to come back on a clear day. It was windy and cold at the viewpoint. After 20 minutes I had to get going. All to soon I caught up with the couple. I gave a cheerful salutation as I passed and again received no response. Oh for two... As I neared the Lily Lake turn off and the muddy stretch I saw why it was so muddy. A beaver dam had blocked the creek. With more water it would be a long skinny lake but now it was a long mud patch. Numerous trees were chewed through along here. At the intersection I turned left to Lily Lake. I immediately saw another bigger beaver dam. The beavers seem to be very busy around here.Previous trip reports said Lily Lake was just a small mud hole. I found it to be a nice small lake full of water. I decided to head on and look for the route up North Butte. After following the lake shore the trail headed uphill. It was very muddy here but I managed to pick a dry route through lots of mud. The path was easy to follow and ended at a rocky spot. From the top of the rock I could see Oyster Dome and out to salt water. I climbed down and headed into the woods. A short distance led to an opening in the trees. I could see the bottom half of Mt. Baker. Without the clouds this would be a great close up view of the mountain. I then headed down and was back at the lake in now time. From the lake I passed Max's Shortcut which was another route that would have taken me back. Instead I backtracked to the Lily Lake Trail and took it down.This is a very nice trail which drops in several long gentle switchbacks. From North Butte to the upper trailhead was about 4 miles. I passed several hikers coming up. When I reached the main road I turned uphill and in a short distance reached the upper parking lot. It was about 1 mile down to the lower trailhead and my car. This is a great area to hike. There are great views out to islands and salt water, several lakes, and great loop opportunities. It was really nice to go somewhere I have never hiked as well. The high point of my trip was about 2200' but with all the ups and downs I managed to get in 2700' of gain. Now I just need to come back on a sunny day.Photos will be posted shortly at: http://www.hikingnorthwest.com. Go to ""Trips-2005"" on the left margin.We started by the Oyster Bar on Chuckanut Drive and completed a lollipop loop hiking up the PNT to the Lily Lake Campground and back to the PNT on the Sarnish Connection. Beware of the 2 mile 60 mph speedzone just before the Chuckanut exit. The hike up the PNT offered stellar views up to an overlook, which unfortunately was a bit trashy. There were some old, rotting recliners and fire pits up there. Continuing up the PNT was a nice forested walk and very well marked by a plethora of PNT signs. Lily Lake seemed to be more of a beaver pond with plenty of beaver activity evidence including freshly felled trees. In fact the first bit of the Sarnish Connection seemed to be rerouted a little higher to avoid rising water.The view from the top of the dome was nice and we got to see a pair of bald eagles, some other large birds of prey, and a rock climber. Hiking down the Sarnish Connection was steep in places. We stopped off to play in the boulder field and bat caves which I'm not sure we found. There were jumbles of rocks we poked our head into, but we never found a system to climb into. The rocks were very slippery in places and covered in moss.Hike down from there was short and we passed a number of hikers coming up late in the day. I'm guessing this hike gets packed on a weekend.We did see 3 blooming trilium and tons of those yellow flowers that I think are skunk cabbage. I guy we met who may have been one his own kind of mushrooms claimed he was hunting for morells.I left the parking area at Samish Overlook with Daisy the Wonder Dog and Yetiman at 10 am, and headed the ""wrong way"" down the PNT towards Chuckanut drive far below. At the first switchback, we turned right on the Samish Bay Connector, which took us up and down and over to the Oyster trail. Then it was up and up on a rough and rooty trail, very slippery in places, to the Talus trail that goes to the Bat Caves. We spent three hours exploring the area and nursing the dog through some pretty rough scrambling and bouldering. We made it up to the rock wall of the giant cliffs right in the center, and took plenty of pictures of the great views and cool cliffs and rocks. Next it was back to the Oyster trail and up an extremely steep section to the Oyster Dome side trail, which is also very steep. Great views of the San Juans, Olympics, Vancouver Island, the Gulf Islands of BC, Anacortes, and other cool things. We left at 5 and got back to the car at 6:15 by pushing straight through at full speed. The sunset had died down to smouldering embers by then, but we hung out for a couple of hours anyway, enjoying the commanding views of the Skagit valley spread out beneath us. Wow. The Samish Overlook alone is worth the drive up, just 65 miles from Lynnwood. The first picture was taken at a boulder called ""Ice Age"" on the Oyster trail before the Bat caves turn-off, the second is of the cliffs at Bat Caves.This was my first trip to the Oyster Dome. It was great although the trails are quite muddy.The trip started on road B-2000 on a trail that parallels road B-1000 for about a mile, sometimes only a few yards from the road. This part of the trail was in good shape except for a few mud holes. At an unsigned junction about 2 miles from the trail head, I took a side trail to Max's Short Cut and then up to Lily Lake. At Lily Lake and on the trail to Oyster Dome, I was surprised by beaver dams (2 of them). In one case the dam formed a lake that covered parts of the trail. The water over the trail is deeper than it looks so it is best to use the detours around the water holes.The trail to the Dome is signed, but you have to look for the sign after a crossing of the creek dammed by the beavers. Had the top of Oyster Dome to myself for about 4 minutes then the hordes arrived. Nothing like a sunny day to bring out the hikers. The view is sublime even though I could no see the Olympics due to clouds. The San Juan Islands and Fidelgo Sound were magnificent in the sunshine.I returned via the Blanchard Hill Trail which was very muddy from Horse and Llama use.Note: Flies and other such critters were coming out so this may be a good time to hike this area before mosquito season starts in earnest.Well it was a gorgeous day and we were camping over at Larrabee St. Park and decided to do some hiking in the area. Oyster Dome had great views, but there were too many people, so we continued onto Lily Lake(a swamp), and then headed around the ""Loop"" trail and ended up going up to the North Butte. We climbed up the rocks and caught some incredible views of Mt. Baker. Jacqui and her new toy, a Canon DC, had a wonderful time taking pictures!!!Oyster Dome - Trail ReportThe Dome is a flat open slab of rock at the top of Blanchard Mtn. with views to the west of the San Juan Islands, Anacortes and the Olympic mountains. To get to the Dome you climb a sometimes steep trail up to the 2050 ft. summit. This trail starts at an elevation of only 150 ft. on hiway 11 a few miles south of Bellingham where the North Cascades spread all the way west to Puget Sound. Since this summit is so low it's an excellent early season hike. Often snow free by the end of March. My group of 10 Mountaineers were enthusiastic as we started up at 9:30. Temperature was in the mid 50's with a 4 or 5 thousand foot overcast that we hoped would burn off by noon and there was no wind. There are several trail junctions (mostly with signs) a couple of streams to cross (easy) and a bunch of big muddy sections (but the mud was all dried up!) before the summit . The tread of this trail is mostly good to execellent but it has poor sections which are steep, rocky/rooty , straight up where switchbacks are needed, etc. Arriving at the Dome we had it to ourselves for an extended lunch and nap session! No one else on the trail all morning. The clouds did thin and break up and we needed sunscreen. The view expanded to about 20 miles by the time we started descending. Next up were the Bat Caves, also known as Talus Caves 350 feet below the Dome at the base of a vertical rock wall straight down from the Dome. No bats but big caves formed from giant rock fall off of the cliffs. The caves were the trip highlight for some of my group. For wildlife we only saw ravens soaring below the cliffs, but the flowers were better than I expected for low elevation deep forest: honeysuckle, columbine, false solomons seal, bleeding heart, wild rose, stream violet, and indian pipe. After stopping at all the view points again on the way down we returned to our cars at almost sea level by 3:30. Oyster Dome trail is on DNR land and is built and maintained by volunteers of the Pacific Northwest Trail Assoc. Not on any Green Trails map but featured in the Hiking Whatcom County guidebook. The trailhead is very hard to spot, just a tiny sign on a tree opposite a wide spot in the hiway. The PNT web site www.pnt.org has good maps that you can print but the trailhead information is skimpy.About 8 miles and 1900 ft. elevation gain.Robert Michelson 6-15-02Needing an inspirational environment in which to try to finish a newspaper article I was writing, I decided that sitting on top of Oyster Dome typing away on a keyboard would do the trick. The road approaching the start of the trail (Chuckanut Drive - Highway 11) has signs all along it warning that the road is closed, but it is open at least as far as the trailhead at Oyster Creek. What a gorgeous day! The trail is in great condition - thanks to the local Pacific Northwest Trail Association that has recently done maintenance on it. And the views of Samish Bay are just awesome! Its been almost 2 years since I've been up on these mountains and it is a true mutli-use area. Though this was a weekday, there were mountain bikers, hang gliders, horseback riders, mountain joggers and rock climbers populating the network of trails in addition to a few of us hikers. I sat on top of the dome and did my work, while two of the rock climbers were working their way up the gigantic chair I was sitting on. No snow anywhere, Lily Lake is close to dry, no runoff on the trail to speak of and gorgeous blue skies. . . but no solitude.When I got up Saturday morning, it was raining, so I decided to head north for better weather. I had been up to the Oyster Dome a couple of times from the west trail head on Highway 11. This time I thought coming from the east would be a good choice to see some new country. In the book, ""Winter Hikes"", it gives descriptions of hikes in the Chuckanut Mountains. The DNR has several trail heads on Blanchard Hill to pick from to start your hike. And the weather was good.I used the Incline Trail off the B-1000 road, but went up the Incline Alt. Trail which is much less steep. The Incline Trail was built as a logging railroad incline 3/4 of a mile long in 1920, with a maximum grade of 38 percent by the Sammish Bay Logging Company to reach the timber in the shortest possible route. It was called the Lizard Lake incline. Once at the top of the incline I hiked the old railroad grade trail to the junction with the Lizard Lake Trail. There was about a foot of old snow on the ground, but it was packed down from other hikers. I hike over to the lake which has several DNR campsites and a privy.I continued on past three other trail junctions to the end of the old railroad grade. This is where the PNT comes up from Highway 11 and where the trail to the Oyster Dome heads north. After getting up to the Dome it was time for lunch and the views out to the San Juans and the Bat Caves down below. I didn't stay to long as the wind was blowing (I think it always does up on top).I did meet several other hikers, three horse rider and two mtn. bikers. If you would like to see a photo of the incline and learn some history of the area, check out the book, ""Logging Railroads of Skagit County"" by Dennis Thompson.With the Cascades looking wet and cloudy, my friends Lee and Shelley, and I headed up north to Skagit County and the southern end of the Chuckanuts. We headed up the PNT to the view point up at the Oyster Dome. The trail switch backs up though second growth timber for a mile, then goes into an old DNR clear cut area that is growing back up with small conifers. Here you get your first views out over the water to Mt. Erie and the San Juan Islands. Once into the trees, the trail gets muddy and steep in places. At 3.5 miles you come to an old logging railroad grade, then it is only a half mile further to the Oyster Dome and some great views. This area was originally logged between 1912 to 1928 by the Samish Bay Logging Co. who had a sawmill at Blanchard on the bay.With the wind blowing cold at the Oyster Dome, we had a quick bite to eat and then headed down. A little over a mile back we took a side trail to the Bat Caves which gives you a view of the face of the Oyster Dome from below. There are a lot of large stone blocks piled up and making some caves. There is a warning sign telling of all the bad things insides the caves. Rock climbers can do some crack climbing up the Oyster Dome on different routes.We lucked out with the weather, as it didn't start raining until we got back down to the car, as other were still going up. And some of them did not have any rain gear. We did see two Eagles flying around and making lots of noise. The hike is describe in the book ""Winterhikes in Puget Sound & the Olympic Foothills"". 3-25.I left the parking area around 9:00 am, with only a couple of cars parked on the side of the road. The day was perfect - sunny and cool. Not far up the trail I ran into several Pacific Trail Network folks working diligently on the trail. The path up was muddy, but not excessively so, and  I ran into only a few people on the path. The Bat Caves were a good place for a lunch break, and the views from the Oyster Dome were nice - jewels of islands floating in the blue sea beyond the land. I tried to go further to Elephant Peak but the path was lost in a few inches of snow, so I went on to Lily Lake. An inner tube fisherman was complaining about too many people on the trail (what did he expect on a Saturday'). I had run into a woman who told me about a loop trail that I could take back to the road, and I tried to follow her directions. I got slightly lost at two unmarked intersections, but followed my instincts, and found myself on a very muddy and new looking path that brought me back to the cutoff to the Overlook that I didn't take when hiking up the trail in the morning. If you are going to wander around I would advise a map unless you like the sensation of wondering if you are on the right trail (I kinda enjoy it, as long as I know I can always backtrack). The PNT people were walking out looking pretty tired as I was heading back down the trail, seven hours later. Good of them to give their Saturday to keep the trail in shape.I left the parking area around 9:00 am, with only a couple of cars parked on the side of the road. The day was perfect - sunny and cool. Not far up the trail I ran into several Pacific Trail Network folks working diligently on the trail. The path up was muddy, but not excessively so, and  I ran into only a few people on the path. The Bat Caves were a good place for a lunch break, and the views from the Oyster Dome were nice - jewels of islands floating in the blue sea beyond the land. I tried to go further to Elephant Peak but the path was lost in a few inches of snow, so I went on to Lily Lake. An inner tube fisherman was complaining about too many people on the trail (what did he expect on a Saturday'). I had run into a woman who told me about a loop trail that I could take back to the road, and I tried to follow her directions. I got slightly lost at two unmarked intersections, but followed my instincts, and found myself on a very muddy and new looking path that brought me back to the cutoff to the Overlook that I didn't take when hiking up the trail in the morning. If you are going to wander around I would advise a map unless you like the sensation of wondering if you are on the right trail (I kinda enjoy it, as long as I know I can always backtrack). The PNT people were walking out looking pretty tired as I was heading back down the trail, seven hours later. Good of them to give their Saturday to keep the trail in shape.After we concluded our trailwork at nearby Fishtrap Lake, I decided to go check out the Scroggie Loop on the other side of the lake.  This separate piece of BLM property doesn't connect to the trail system on the north side of the lake, and as I hiked the main trail, I also never got close enough to see the lake.  I'm not sure if it's possible to see the lake from some of the high points on the edges of the property, but sticking to the main trail also yields some good views.  The trail consists entirely of old farm roads, marked with carsonite trail markers.  There are other farm roads that could be incorporated into one's wanderings, but I stuck to the main trail since this was the conclusion of a long day on trail.  My GPS watch had the complete loop at exactly 3 miles. I saw several mule deer on my hike, none of which stuck around long enough to let me take their picture.  There are also several wetlands, all of which had birds.  The flowers are out now, and will only get better.  I noticed a lot of wild irises, none of which are in bloom yet, but which should be spectacular once they do get started.  This trail is close to several other nice hikes, so if it's too short, just add another of the nearby trailheads: Fishtrap proper, Folsom Farm, or Hog Canyon are all quite close.Did this one and Hog lake today. Was hoping for blue sky, but it was rainy and cloudy. This hike is also muddy but easy to follow. This hike may also be a great one for spring.Did a little site-seeing adventure on the Windy Ridge side of the mountain with the niece and nephew. We stopped at all the look-outs and read all the signs. I don't think I had been to this side of the mt for about 20 years, so didn't really remember anything specific. Not very many people on this side, probably due to the longer drive and it was a cloudy day with occasional rain showers.  Harmony Falls was our last stop of the day. Hiked down to Spirit Lake. The falls are now a small creek tumbling over a few rocks. Still pretty. The trail ends at the log raft. Really cool! We usually hike from the Cougar side or the Johnston Ridge side and I had no idea there was even a trail that went down to the lake. It started raining on us as soon as we got to the lake, so we took a few pictures and went back to the car. This would be a great hike to do on a sunny day and spend some time at the logs. The magnitude of destruction here is really impressive. We also had foggy views of Loowit Falls that would be great on a clear day. Took us around an hour round-trip with a 10 and 12 year old and some time for pictures at the lake.Forest Road 99 to Windy Ridge is open & in good condition!This was a nice short hike down to Spirit Lake - great views once you reach the lake & along the trail there are at least 5 different types of wildflowers blooming :)  I hiked this trail on the same day as Meta Lake which made a nice pair. I hiked this with a hip injury & was able to do the 700' elevation gain in 1 mile on the way back with no issues/pain, but I took it slowly & took a couple short breaks. It may be a challenging ascent for some people though or for children. ----------I created an instagram hashtag #hikingwithaninjury which others are welcome to use to share easy but scenic hikes that can be done when injured :)An excellent, short day-hike - roundtrip took us 1.5 hours (including a decent amount of time near Spirit Lake). Trail was in good shape - water run-off had carved through the middle of it in parts, and there were some rocks to navigate close to the lake, but overall it's easy to traverse. Bugs weren't bad (some buzzing around during the first half of the hike).   Trail starts off going downhill and levels off close to the lake.  Views were great (even if the clouds were blocking some of St. Helens), and we only came across maybe 10 other people the entire time (no one was down at the bottom). The climb back up makes you sweat, but considering it is relatively short, it's not bad at all.We revisited the Mount Margaret Backcountry on a two night backpack trip August 22-24, 2014.   We took a couple for their first backpack trip, conditions could not have been better for a first backcountry experience.  There were no bugs, weather was clear and temperatures were perfect.  We headed out from the Norway Pass TH around 11:30a on Friday and made our way to Bear Camp (where we'd stayed in 2009).  Weather was much better this year and there seems to be a small herd of goats who've taken up residency behind Bear Camp. On Saturday we did the Whittier Trail/Lakes Loop while our friends hiked the opposite direction on the Lakes trail to do an out and back to Obscurity Lake.  It's a challenging traverse given the terrain but we kept our minds on the trail and made it through with no issues.  We only saw two other guys on the Whittier trail and they were doing it from the opposite direction.  The Lakes trail was a much more relaxing stroll compared to the Whittier trail.  We stopped at Panhandle Lake to relax for a bit and cool our feet then proceeded on up to Bear Pass and back to Bear Camp.   After a quick dinner we headed over to Mt Margaret on the Boundary Trail to enjoy the evening light and some elk viewing. Sunday we packed up camp and headed back to the parking lot.  We then headed to the Harmony Falls trail and hiked down to Spirit Lake to take in some lake-level views. We have done a lot of hiking in the St Helens area and it never disappoints, especially the MMBC.  We enjoyed views of goats from our tent and with no moon the star gazing was at a premium.Great short hike. Lots of people huffin and puffin on there out. Great views of Spirit lake and St Helens.The trail gradually drops 700 ft to the shores of Spirit Lake and is the only legal access to Spirit Lake. The steep part travels through alder and a few fir trees so it is mostly in shade which makes the return elevation gain not bad, especially since a light breeze was blowing! The area brought back memories of when we used to camp and boat in the area prior to the eruption. What a contrast! There were small meadows of beautiful wildflowers. Some are beginning to fade, but they and the fir trees provide beautiful color to the starkness of the landscape. No berries, and the wildflowers are almost gone. Also, there is very little water going over Harmony Falls. But the main attraction, getting down to Spirit Lake even makes the trek back up the hill worth it. We saw a school group from Oregon down at the lake, and the kids were having a wonderful time.Feeling like old friends, we revisited the Spirit Lake and Mt. St. Helens after 31 years.  Going camping there by the lake shore in the fall of 1979, we fell in love with the majestic and snowy peak.  We walked around the serene lake admiring the reflection of the cone-shaped mountain.  We hiked up to the base of Dog's Head and had to stop there because the trail was so loose with pumice.  And I will always remember the springy lake trail surface filled w/ evergreen needles which lent itself to easy stroll.  Who's to know that the perfect Lady would wake up in angst and showed us who's the boss in no time!After visiting Mt. Rainier and stayed overnight at the Paradise Inn, it occurred to me that it may be an ideal arrangement to swing by our old acquaintance's and see how much we remember each other.  37 miles south of Randal, Windy Ridge provides the closest view into the crater from the north.  The TH to Harmony lies about 3 miles short of the Ridge.  From there it is a moderate 600' elevation change to hike down to Spirit Lake.  Most of the trail is in the woods providing shades during a hot summer day.  We washed our hands and cooled our necks with the cold water dripping from the rock wall and the hand scoop from the running stream.  The official end of trail was reached in just over a mile.  A ranger was on duty patrolling the trail and reminded us, if we did not read the sign at the TR, that immediate access to the lake is prohibited.The scenes around the lake remind me of the dueling and alternating power of destruction and rebuild.  The bare and singed trees falling upward reveals the power of the blast while the lush vegetation around the lake manifests the persevering survival instinct of life if given the chance to be left alone.We took numerous pictures of the lake and the Lady, still puffing, and found variety of vegetation thriving well.  I also enjoyed the ripening huckleberry in the open meadow.  It took us 30 minutes to come back up and then somewhat unwillingly waved good-bye to our old friend.  It is comforting to know that both of us are now older and, hopefully, wiser to appreciate what we have in each other.This is a great hike for kids, one I picked specifically for CK and Pete and their two kids (ages 6 and 8), who had never seen Mt. St. Helen's.  Highlights are a bird's eye view of the mountain and the breach, volcano-blasted hillsides, log-jammed Spirit Lake, and lovely little Harmony Falls, where the kids were amazed to learn through a makeshift science experiment that large lava rocks actually float on the water.The trail descends gradually through welcome shade for the first 0.5 mile, then heads onto a sun-exposed plain.  The grade, for a child, would feel moderately steep.  Log-hop across some huge grey logs and enjoy Harmony Falls, then wander down towards Spirit Lake, where some flat rocky ledges provide ample space for a picnic or a nap.Wildflowers are in bloom, especially brilliant red paintbrush, purple penstemon, and pearly everlasting.  Flowers were far fewer than up above on the Independence Pass Loop, but there was a smattering of lupine, sitka valerian, bleeding heart, and arnica.  Flies weren't bad, as there was a nice gentle breeze blowing.  We were joined at the falls by a family hiking with a yellow lab, apparently either unaware of, or unconcerned about, the "No dogs allowed" regulations in the National Monument.  Please obey the rules.STATS:Total time: 2.5 hours (including lolly-gagging, snacking, and science experiments)Distance: 2 miles round-tripElevation Gain: 700 feet (on the return)Map: Green Trails No. 332 (Spirit Lake)Permits: NW Forest PassTO GET THERE:From Randle, take FR 25 to its junction with FR 99.Turn right onto FR 99 and drive 13 miles to the trailhead on the right (3 miles past junction with FR 26).The Spirit Lake/Harmony Falls hike was well worth the effort to get there from Camas, Wa. We headed out at 10:00 am and figured we would be at the trailhead by noon.  Nope. It seems it was a Biker Rally weekend of sorts, both motorized and pedaled bikes, all over the hills leading up to the trailhead.  Two accidents with ambulance calls of bikers who laid down their hogs, not used to the sharp turns and uneven grades on the roads (NFR 23 and 99). The Harmony Falls trail is mildly steep, boarderline between tennis shoes and hiking boots. It decends into a zone where the winds of the eruption had a force of 300 mph. A few dead trees were standing on sheltered hillsides, and nothing else but wildflowers and low bushes.  Indian paint brush was abundant, as was the late crop huckleberries.  The lake itself with its two mile long log debris field is very impressive, especially how the log debris field flows from the wind. The name Spirit lake brings to mind the spirit of the old lake, the Boy Scout camp, the lodges and their inhabitants, now 200 feet beneath the surface.  Harmony falls were just a trickle but nice anyway.  The hike back was mild cardiac but we were in the parking lot in 45 minutes. Not bad for two 50 plus kids.  We also stopped at Meta lake on the way back, and admired the lake view and the finely decked out mushrooms.We took our 6 year old down to Spirit Lake on this trail.  Yes, it is fairly steep at the beginning, but with rest stops he had no problem.  this trail sure has changed since the last time we were here, almost 6 years ago.  The whole beginning of the trail is now shaded.  The pumice plane is open and it would get hot if the temp is hot.  Seeing the logs on the water is a very earie and cool site.  I highly recommend this hike, which is a little over 2 miles.The one thing that I do have to say is please people, STAY ON THE MARKED TRAIL!!!  This is a very fragile environment and your walking off trail to take "that perfect" picture is not helping.  Yes, the signs do apply to you.  Please think about what you are teacing your children when you don't listen to the signs or rangers.After the WTA Dark Divide campout my sons and I went to Mt. St. Helens. We stopped briefly by the Miner's Car, which I found sobering, before hiking the Harmony Trail #224 down to Spirit Lake.Low alder, salmonberry, devils club, mountain ash, and fireweed have grown up around the bleached bones of fallen cedar and hemlock giants. The shrubs were well brushed back from the trail. The mountain ashes were in berry, and the fireweed seed pods were nearly ready to burst open and spread their cottony fluff. Pearly everlasting was everywhere. Blueberries were ripe but small and uninteresting after this dry summer.Closer to the lake, where the brush was much thinner, clumps of lupine and penstemon abounded in the ash. A very few still had blooms. Blueberry leaves had already turned wine-color and were starting to fall. Ground squirrels boldly scampered about with their tails straight up like the masts of sailing ships.A Forest Service interpreter came by as we approached the lake. She was a fountain of knowledge about the eruption, though she must have been a baby when it happened - if she had even been born yet.Logs cover the north end of Spirit Lake by Harmony Creek flows. The creek is clear and pretty, cascading gently over a low rocky drop before feeding the lake beneath a log jam. The boys enjoyed themselves among the logs while I listened to the Interpreter describe the effects of the eruption on Spirit Lake. The hillsides are still pretty barren here where the avalanche pushed the lake hundreds of feet out of its bed and scoured away the topsoil.I contemplated Harmony Falls, Harmony Lodge and Harry Truman's Lodge, now drowned more than 200 feet beneath the surface of the lake, and thought about having camped at Spirit Lake when I was young.Conquered Mildred Lakes for my 4th time in the past year. The FS road 25 still has a wash out right around the Carl Putvin (Lake of the Angels) trail. We went over slowly in a sedan and it was fine.  About 10 cars at the trailhead for 4th of July weekend. We made it to the trailhead at 6pm, hiked 2 hours up to Huckleberry Creek where we camped for the night. The waterfall at Huckleberry Creek is gorgeous, be sure to check it out! Woke up in the morning, packed up and got to the 3rd lake in another 2 hours. Most of the parties were day hiking, with only about 3 other groups camping overnight. It was foggy at the lakes, but the sun broke through at times.  Fishing was phenomenal as usual for us. We caught in the neighborhood of 15-20 fish, C&R all but a few for dinner/breakfast. Caught trout on nightcrawlers, powerbait, and rooster tail. We hiked our inflatable kayak up and explored all over the 3rd lake. I don't recommend doing this unless you are in great shape and want a true challenge.  We took several breaks on the way up and way down, but total hike time up was about 4:20 to the 3rd lake (best & biggest lake, holds rainbow trout), and 3:50 down. I was climbing with a 50lb. pack roughly.  Truly a great hike, will be back again!Car camped at Mildred Lakes parking lot and left for a day hike on Monday morning at about 6:00 AM. Trail sign warns: "The trail is no more than a path...minimally maintained and is considered difficult." Definitely true!   Path rises very steeply for about two miles to Huckleberry Creek, drops and then rises again several times. Mosquitos are bad, bring bug spray. Path is a narrow boot path, well marked with little orange ribbons, however it is still easy to get lost higher up. One or two patches of snow, clear skies, excellent conditions. Good camping sites at lakes. Wear sturdy boots, plenty of root/rock scrambles.Road is pretty good--just 1 main spot just beyond lake of the angels trail that would be difficult or impossible with low-clearance cars. I was surprised to find some significant snow patches at the huckleberry creek crossing even though that's just 3100 ft. It was still pretty easy to navigate there, and there was no snow on the subsequent climb until the ridgetop. A few patches and small snowfields on the descent to the first lake, but not difficult, and there are some camps melted out at the lake.  If you want to visit the other 2 lakes though, it will be a tough time! There are several feet of snow in the basin still, and it's pretty rotten and prone to cave-ins, post-holing, and collapse. We tried for a little while then decided it was too dangerous and time-consuming, so we turned around and enjoyed the first lake. I'd say it will be mid-june before it's easy to get to the other lakes.I made it half way to the lakes on this hike today when I came to a very overgrown area with orange flags marking the trail head and I got lost trying to find where the trail continued just after a steep descent. It was as if the trail just ended at that point. It didn't help that there were many fallen trees here and lots of foliage. The trail was fun up to that point but when I couldnt find the trail and started my hike back I realized how confusing this trail can be and how easy I could get lost. I obviously didn't know what I was getting myself into on this hike.we tried this last month but there was to much snow we couldn't cross without snow shoes so we tried it again after all of the nice weather hoping the snow melted and some of it did but higher up the snow was the same as last time so we couldn't make it again. it wasn't a total failure though because we found a nice beautiful open ridge that you could see all the mountains around from.if you don't have snowshoes and good navigation skills don't do it.No snow up to Lena Lake trailhead. Past that about a mile into the gravel part of the road the snow/ice was too high and hard packed to drive through. My Jeep couldn't clear the snow, and took me about an hour just to turn my car around completely after repeatedly getting stuck and digging my car out. Had to settle for the Lena Lake hike which was in good condition.The trail up to the MIldred Lakes is not maintained and is very strenuous.  The trip includes climbing up and down two different ridges before you get to the Lakes.  The 2nd ridge is the most strenuous with ~ 1000' elevation gain in about 3/4 mile ... no switchbacks and multiple areas requiring the use of hands to pull oneself up the trail.  Once you get past all of those obstacles the Lakes are very lovely as is the surrounding mountain panorama!  After the first ridge trail is lined with huckleberry bushes almost all the way out to the lakes.  The berries are still about a week or so from fully ripening. This hike should only be taken by those in great shape ... carry plenty of water!Challenging hike (you definitely want to wear good socks and hiking boots- no sneakers)-  but totally worth the views. We hit the trail at a good time... 60s during the day but pretty chilly at night- 30/40s. Leading up to the lakes the trail splits off a few times and we had to turn around because we came to dead ends- stay alert and make sure you have enough daylight.Got to the trailhead around nine in the morning. I've never hiked without having my rain gear in my pack, but for the first time I decided to leave it in the car to make room for some extra gear. This was a poor decision. The warnings in the description above and the signs at the trailhead are exactly right. It is a very arduous; it took me approximately three hours to get to the lakes. The trail is overgrown in many spots and difficult to follow at times. Do not expect any switchbacks; you'll be pulling yourself with roots at times. If you download the trail map, I recommend continuing on the trail to the furthest lake and exploring on your way back rather than stopping at the first lake.The lakes are well worth the difficult hike. The osprey described above still resides there, and it caught more fish than I did. Trout were everywhere though. If I hadn't wasted time getting lost or had another day or two, catching them would be guaranteed. The waterline of the middle, more northern lake is very low, so the fish seemed concentrated toward the eastern end. Otherwise, I saw some salamanders in the western lake. It started raining hard when I got to the lakes and the wet vegetation covering the trail poured water into my boots, so I was pretty miserable the rest of my time there. If you decide to undertake the Mildred Lakes hike, I recommend it as an overnight or two, that way you have some time to hike, get lost, hike some more, get setup and fish. You do not gain anytime going down! It is more treacherous going down than up! If you're a kind soul, the trail could use a haircut.  And bring some rain gear.I hiked the Mildred Lakes Trail three times this past summer of 2015. My first time in June, 2nd time in beginning of August, and 3rd time end of August. All three times I've brought along my 3yr old Belgian Malinois Aspen.  Starting with the road: Follow US 101 North (unless you are coming from the Port Angeles direction) to Forest Road 25 (FS 25). Forest Road 25 is well marked, you shouldn't miss it. If you use Google Maps and search Lena Lake, it will send you in the right direction. Regardless, turn onto Forest Road 25. You'll follow it for several miles until the road forks and you will STAY RIGHT. Follow the signs towards Lena Lake Campground. Lena Lake Campground can be busy in summer time as it is a very easy hike (more like a walk) so travel slowly as you pass by cars as not everyone obeys leash laws on dogs.  A few miles past Lena Lake trail head, you'll pass by the Carl Putvin hike. Keep going on FS 25. The road turns from paved to dirt/gravel, so be careful. Once you hit the dirt/gravel, it's 6 miles roughly to the Mildred Lakes trail head. You'll know when you get there because you cross a bridge and the parking lot is the end of the road.  Make sure you have your Northwest Forest Pass (can get at station in Hoodsport). Discovery Pass is no good in Olympic National Forest.  Now you are here, let's talk about the hike: Mildred can be done as a day hike, but as soon as you get up there, you'll regret not staying because it's beautiful. I've seen people day hiking with 1 water bottle. Do not be that person. You are risking a lot if you are unprepared.  The hike, for an average person who has never been up to Mildred before, will take roughly 4.5 hours including breaks. Depending on the weight of your overnight pack and your conditioning, you could be looking at 6+ hours. Not trying to scare you, just be prepared and know your abilities going in.  This means you need to plan for how much daylight you have. This is not a trail you want to try and follow at dusk or in darkness unless you are an experienced hiker with companions and multiple light sources. The footing and terrain is dangerous and you could easily slip and roll your ankle and become stranded/injured. Daylight is best, especially for the first time.  The first time I did this hike with my dad (55y/o) and brother-in-law we took roughly 5.5 hours up and 4 hours down getting all the way to the 3rd lake (largest of the 3 lakes). We got turned around a few times from the trail as it's not the easiest to follow.  The second time up I took a friend who was new to hiking and we took nearly 7 hours to reach the 3rd lake. The third time up I brought a different friend and it took 4 hours to get around the 3rd lake and under 3 hours to get all the way back, but we were flying with no breaks. Hopefully this gives you perspective. All of our hikes were done with 35-45 lbs of gear (fishing equip., first aid, food, water, tent, sleeping bags, etc.). The second you are unprepared you are risking your safety. Ok, ok, to the actual hike: Climb out of the parking lot will get your heart pumping immediately. Stop and sign in so Search & Rescue can find you in the event of an emergency. Also, let other family/friends know your plans.  The trail flattens a bit after a few minutes and you will venture through a heavily wooded forest for roughly 30-45 minutes depending on your pace. It's not bad at all. If this part is too much for you, please stop, turn around, and go to Lena Lake trail head. Seriously, you'll hurt yourself. After the heavily wooded, "enchanted forest", you'll come to a meadow clearing, likely due to previous mudslide/avalanche. Cross through the meadow and back into the forest where it gradually turns left and heads uphill. You should see a large tree/log on the ground to your left. Continue up hill for about 20-30 min until you reach the first plateau. Be careful not to venture off to the right and lose the trail, but there is a nice view point there.  From the first plateau, the trail snakes downhill mostly to your right. If you stop and listen, you should hear a creek and running water. Head downhill to the creek. Now, you should be on the left side of the creek. This is a nice rest stop for those of you who are huffing and puffing. Continue along the left bank of the creek until you see a natural log crossing. Be careful, as dew/moss/rain can make this slippery and it's about an 8 foot drop into the shallow creek.  Once you cross the creek, STOP. Gather your bearings as the trail is not very clear cut here. The ribbons can be misleading. Look at the ground and marks for worn paths. Essentially, the trail starts veering to the right and uphill, wrapping around the side of the hill. You'll know your on the right track when you come to the infamous root wall. It's steep, but actually very technically easy. Just take your time and keep three points of contact at all times (foot, hand, hand or foot, foot, hand). Warning: If you have a dog with you, this may be the one difficult part. Make sure you go first so you can help them down.  Once you go down the root wall, go up the other side. It's much easier than the first part. From here, you'll begin the most rigorous part of the trail as you will climb difficult rocks, roots, etc for an hour or more depending on pace. But, this is the last plateau you need to conquer. Just keep your head down and focus on footwork, one step after another and you'll make it. There's a false plateau about 3/4 of the way up that's flat and a nice natural resting area and good vantage point.  From here, kick it in gear as the beautiful lakes await! Once on top of the 2nd plateau, the trail will naturally want to take you to your right to an overlook. This can lead you off the trail. Stay left and descend downhill towards the lakes. You won't be able to see them, but you'll cross through  some marsh areas where you'll see small ponds, etc. Keep going, descending all the way to the 1st lake.  Follow the trail left of the 1st lake. You'll snake your way left around the 1st lake. Depending on water level, in later summer you can save time and walk along the shoreline. You'll see a ledge on the 1st lake, a nice open area where you could jump in, camp, etc. People have camped here before but IMHO I wouldn't for several reasons. 1) You didn't come this far to not get to the 3rd lake (biggest), and 2) Everyone coming along the trail will walk through your camp.  From this ledge at the 1st lake, you have two choices. Continue following the left side of the 1st lake and the trail will lead you to the 2nd lake in about 5-10 minutes. The 2nd lake (from talking with other Anglers) is supposed to be home to some 16+in brook and cutthroat trout.  If you want to see true beauty and want a little bit more of a workout since Mildred Lakes was too easy for you, head left on the trail head from the ledge overhang. You'll get one more section of uphill (5 minutes worth) and then you'll start to see the 3rd lake in about 10 minutes. Natural tent sites are fairly abundant if you shop around. It's a large lake so if you are looking to be isolated and away from the other 10 hikers who conquered the beast, then the 3rd lake is the best for you.  Dip the sore feet and legs in the Alpine Lakes and enjoy some fresh trout! If you fish, I've had success with 6-8 lb. line, standard Shimano spin casting with yellow rainbow rooster tail, powerbait, nightcrawlers slowly trolled with a small amount of weight.  No campfires are allowed up here since it's above the Alpine altitude limit. So prepare accordingly.  All in all, it's an awesome hike if you like some outstanding trout and a killer workout while not being annoyed but screaming kids and loud music from neighboring campers. Mildred Lakes is not for the faint of heart. So lace your boots up (no sneakers if you don't want a snapped tibula) and go to work!It would be helpful to know that Forest Road 25 is the right prong of the fork at about 7 miles from highway 101. We took the wrong turn and went left. Perhaps this is a simple error but it is worth noting. Head towards Lena Lake and pass that campground and you will be okay. Not too many cars at the trailhead despite the fact that we got a late start and the aforementioned self-imposed detour, which added about 30 minutes. It was 2:15 and probably 15 cars. On the way up we ran into a number of day hikers who either could not find their way past huckleberry creek. I was surprised by the large number of people hiking with out any map or navigation device. The hike is pretty much as advertised. I would add that rocks and roots are your friends when trying to figure out which direction to go after the creek. Whenever you think you might be going the wrong way, you probably are. Give it 20 or 30 feet then go back to where you might have taken the wrong turn, chances are you did. Follow the tell tales or pink tape (whatever you call it) but be wary. Somebody has put up a few markers near the creek that can lead you astray. You will recognize them by the increased frequency, to the point of being unnecessary. The trout were there. A few hikers that we passed said they had caught one or two and I saw quite a few jumping. Unfortunately for me, I am new at fly fishing, and I think that my slapping the water with my line was not the elixir that attracted them to my hook. I could blame it on the fly selection but that would be lying to myself. All in all a great and memorable hike. Just remember safety first and you need to be in good condition. A final note: we saw a couple of sites with campfires, which according to the regs is not cool. And one guy had brought up some strand of lights that looked like Christmas or Vegas. Perhaps the weirdest thing I have witnessed in the backcountry. Cheers.The road to the trailhead is in great shape *except* for one weird, bumpy, pile of gravel right after the trail to Lake of the Angels. My Subaru Forester made it fine, and we saw a 2 door Honda at the trailhead, but if you're really worried about scratching up the bottom of your bumper, maybe try somewhere else. Like the description says, this trail is rough. It's pretty easy to follow, but you'll spend a lot of time making sure you're following the right path. Someone put colored flags on trees along the way, which helps immensely. This trail is very steep. A sign at the trailhead says not to cut switchbacks. There really aren't any to cut since it just goes straight up most of the hills. If you aren't comfortable using your hands along with your feet to climb up and down, this trail probably isn't for you. There's one log crossing that some might find a little scary, but it's wide enough that it's not a problem. It took us 3 hours 45 minutes to make it up with overnight gear. It took us 3 hours 15 minutes on the way down the next day. We're generally pretty fast hikers, but the rocks, roots, climbing, and route finding definitely slowed us down. Getting to the upper lake is pretty tough, but cool. It's not too hard to find. Make your way around the lower lake to the inlet stream. Cross it, and follow the trail there. If you've made it that far, you won't have trouble following the trail from there. The lake is beautiful though. Definitely worth all of the work. This is a great trail for people looking for something that challenges your hiking skills, rather than just your physical fitness.We got to the trail head Friday around 12 last time I was here was thirty two years earlier it was a ball breaker then and hasn't change a bit and to me that's good because it's worth the the pain.  Now whomever put those trail markers on different points on the trail thank you because and several point it is a little hard to find the trail particularly the first major attitude gain after crossing a area of Mountain Willow the trail goes up and I'm talking hang on to the roots and pull but what is amazing is the footholds and hand holds right where they need to be.  Personal note I lost my Samsung 5 somewhere between starting and where you have to cross a medium size stream on a log roughly the half way point don't fret about the log or the phone it was insured just would like all the pictures and contacts on it  and the log is flat with another larger log along side for aiding in balance.  On to the lakes, we got to the first lake nice but move on stay on South shore the trails easy to follow hugging shoreline we found a suitable campsite around 6 P.M. it gets dark quick in the shadows so we set camp at the the head of the lake the next day following the outlet stream to the second pictures then back to civilization my friend Jim just had foot surgery a couple months ago (he's a tough one) so we wanted to give us plenty of time to get down again the way this trail is oriented give your self plenty of time to come down safely.  Happy Trails,   PaulI was hesitant to do this trail after reading some of the descriptions here. I am NOT an experienced hiker and I've never hiked with a 20lb backpack before. It was challenging but not impossible. The trail is definitely not maintained after a certain point. As it states above, the trail is very "rooty" but that actually helps with the climbing. Scariest part for me was crossing over a log that was kind of narrow for my liking. I don't do well with crossing narrow things, and it wasn't even that high but definitely would have broken a bone if I had fallen. You do have to pull yourself upward with roots and rocks sometimes, but it's not too bad. Bugs weren't an issue thankfullyy! There were a few pesky horseflies and I get bit by one. The lake was gorgeous!! We stayed over one night. Fresh paw prints not too far from our tent in the morning, which was rather unsettling and I didn't sleep well b/c my mind was going places having to do with bears and cat. Guess that's part of the experience.Beautiful sunny days. There were about 7 cars in the lot when we showed up at 11:30 on Saturday. I hiked it with a couple of friends and we stayed over night. The hike really isn't that bad if you are somewhat in shape. If you have bad joints or you are really out of shape it might be a different story.  We fished the first lake you come to with some spinners. Didn't catch anything and no one else around us did. Bring some deet for the mosquitoes. They came out in force right before dusk, but they went away as the sun was about to set. Beautiful scenery and a good time. Trail conditions were great with snow here and there.It was a beautiful sunday so we decided to hike to thease three beautiful alpine lakes and it was well worth it. We started at the trail head at 8:45 am. The trail to huckleberry creek is free of snow and only 2 or 3 blowdowns wich was easy to go under or around. We got to the creek at about 10 am we were making great timing so we decided to have a snack fill our water bottles and prepared for a steep hike up to the second peak. The second peak before decending to the lakes was spotty snow but nothing hard. I wad wearing my vibrams and they fried really quick.  we got to the lakes at 12:30 sat and had lunch in a perfect spot at the first lake it was absolutly stunning the lakes are 99% melted only a little bit of ice on the edge but thats it. Ive been to thease lakes about 10 times in the lsdt few years and it never gets old it is hands down one of the hardest most rewarding hikes ive ever been on. But im trying to get conditiond for my wonderland hike in august so it was just perfect we had alot of fun . The Hamma Hamma Road is clear of snow to the trailhead. Minor potholes except for one that is so deep a kind person has placed in it an upright pole with flagging.The trail to Huckleberry creek is mostly snow free.  There are some longer stretches in deep shaded north facing slopes. We made an an early start and the snow was firm enough to support us. We could see where someone had to cope with softer snow and repeatedly potholed.  We felt no need for snowshoes. One of our party did pull on his micro-chains to feel more confident in his footing.There are a few logs that require one to get quite low in order to pass. The rest are easily stepped over or around.We heard pileated woodpeckers hammering, grouse booming and some little brown birds carrying on song competitions. It is early spring.We were able to drive to within just less than a mile from the trailhead. If we had been able to drive a quarter mile closer, we could have made it all the way. The trail is melted out all the way to the broad avalanche path off of the backside of Pershing.  Snowshoes were required from there until the descent off the first ridge down to Huckleberry Creek.Most of the blow downs are step-overs or duck-unders. The rain and snow melt had kicked many of the gentle seeps into a new gear. They were  now streams.  The perennial mud hole has been washed free of mud and now sports a firm gravel bottom. We were able to drive about 2 miles past the Lena Lake trailhead. We left the truck about 8 am and skied to the Mildred Lakes trailhead. There we switched to snow shoesfor the trip to Huckleberry Creek. I was here 3 weeks earlier and we were able to drive to the Mildred Lakes trailhead and hike  by boot to Huckleberry. What a difference a big snow dump makes. BTW, that snow has also toppled many trees across the trail. Should make for a good WTA log out this summer.The climb over the first ridge was 'character building' enough. There was no need (or time) to cross the creek and attempt the second ridge. We returned to the truck at about 6:30 pm. Just before headlamp time.Arrived at Mildred Lakes trailhead at 9:00. Road to the trailhead was in good shape. A few spots near the end of the Hamma Hamma River Rd may be difficult to drive with a low-clearance vehicle. No snow until the last mile of the road to the trailhead, and then just a light dusting. The trail is still easy to follow until the creek crossing. After the creek crossing the trail becomes more difficult to follow but is well flagged. The trail follows a few ridges as it works its way towards the lakes. It becomes easier to lose the trail here. There are a few extra inches of snow along the ridges so during these stretches we were just following the flagging in trees. We lost the trail before making it to the large lake so stopped at the first for lunch before heading back. The walk took much longer than expected. Even though we turned back before the end of the trail we still made it back to the trailhead with only about 20 minutes of light remaining (5:20 PM).  We also ran into bees (or yellow jackets?) in two places on the first half of the trail.  We did make it to the lakes. The weather was fine and we saw only three other people on the trail.  Believe me when I say it sure seems like a lot more than 9 miles round trip. It would be an easy place to fall and hurt yourself or twist an ankle.  Plan on taking longer than you would on another trail of this length.Very pretty so the reward may be worth the effort, especially if you are young and strong. The log crossing was fairly easy: look for some downed logs up stream that are easier to cross than the obvious high log over the river that you come to first. my mother and step father went and looked around. trailhead was easily accesable. within 100 yards of trail head there is a ground bee nest be carefull she was stung atleast 8 times. after that the trip was kinda ruined they made it about a 1/2 mile and decided to turn around, morale was a little low with bee stings and all. just tryin to warn everyone about the bees, they are a quick way to ruin a trip.Talk about diverse, and beautiful growth.  This hike was a BEAST but is deceiving the first mile or so.  It was rough but fun.  The blue berries and huckleberries were all in full bloom, ready for eating.  We got over first ridge and then to second ridge, there was more berries that had some good taste to them.  First ridge doesn't see as much sun, so it wasn't as lush with the tasty berries.  Headed down toward Mildred Lakes can be confusing, but just stay to the left.  The lakes were beautiful.  We didn't go to the biggest lake, but hung out at the shore of the second lake.  Fish and bugs were bountiful.  No bear or any other animal citings.  It's a BEAST of a climb but fun and challenging.  Made the hike up to Mildred Lakes last weekend. I'm sad to say that this little gem is being run down by noisy, drunk, littering redneck fishermen. I am a fisherman myself and have loved taking the annual trip up to Mildred. But I have seen the fishing decline steadily over the last 4 years.While the lakes still look the same and offer some of the best scenery outside of National Park, it was disturbing to see piles of unburied human waste surrounded by used TP. There was also a substantial pile of garbage left by someone, complete with empty whiskey bottles. There were four noisy campers at the middle lake drinking and yelling all kinds of foul language. So much for solitude. Gone are the days of 30+ fish at the middle lake. I suspect that overfishing has depleted the numbers significantly.We also encountered several hornet nests right on the trail and I ended up getting stung just minutes from the car on the return hike. Keep a watchful eye on where you step.On the bright side, WTA did a fantastic job of cleaning up all of the blow downs last month! I just hope that careless rednecks don't ruin this little gem. Hopefully we get another huge rainstorm at some point so the road gets washed out again! The camouflaged trail is still there and still in it's unique condition. Pay attention on this trail you could easily lose it. Blueberries are a nice treat on this trail right now.almost from the start there were many blowdowns which were rather easy to get around, the trail was ok to follow all the way to huckleberry creek. had some trouble finding the trail after crossing huckleberry creek however after about 30 minutes we found the trail going up the hill. we took our time climbing the last hill then about maybe 1/4 of a mile from the top we lost whatever trail there was, it was like it disappeared. we finally gave up and hiked back down heading to the trailhead. bugs were horrible and yes we used repellant which helped a bit. I did this hike 20 years ago(stayed a couple of days) and I never remember it being as rough as it was. obviously the trail is NOT maintained as well as it once may have been. Make sure note the words from the above description: Insanity, rocky, little more then a way path, root hand holds, mosquitos...It's hard to follow the trail up to Huckleberry Creek, but there is a trail the whole way. It easier to see going back. You must be careful and lightweight going up the last 1000ft incline (extremely steep). There is a lot of beauty but watch your step. Start early so you can stop to look around. The last 1000ft incline is scary and going down we followed any live trees (even small ones) and repelled down. Fishing is no fun while fighting mosquitos, so bring more then repellent (nets). Not recommended for beginning hikers. We saw no goats or bears.It's a bear of a hike but the views and solitude are worth it. There are lots of blowdowns in the beginning, but those subside after the first mile or so. The steep sections and scantly marked trails in the middle section (till you get to the big creek crossing) are good precursors to the upcoming climbs and drops. The climb after the creek crossing is more like an uphill obstacle course than a trail in places, lots of places. We lost the "trail" in the snowy, bog after dropping into the lake basin, but were able to bushwack our way to the lower lake. There was flagging tape in all directions, so don't assume they'll lead you to the lakes. We took our time and made it up in about 5 hours and back in about 3 hours. The knees and hips are sore today.The road to this trail was nearly inaccessible, we managed to get by in a Subaru outback but a standard car would not have made the trip. On the trail, there are A LOT of blowdowns in the first couple of miles, but it's passable. We made it through the avalanche chute and through the woods beyond that, but then at the first ridgetop we lost the trail due to snow, and had to end our hike there. It's dicey with the snow right now, a frustrating experience to route-find and post-hole, so I would recommend waiting another month or so before giving it a shot. We didn't actually take on this trail: wanted to post this rather to give others an indication of the current snow levels and trailhead accessibility:The road is actually in pretty good shape going up to the trailhead-- one obvious previous washout section is dicey, especially in snow. The snow was about 6in deep for the last mile or two before the parking lot: might prove difficult to get here in low clearance vehicles pretty soon.. not advisable in non-4wd.We passed on the trail based on the snow levels at that elevation and our lack of snow shoes. Can't imagine its easy to follow this trail in the winter conditions either.  My hunting partner and I decided to scope out this trail for deer, fish, and catch a challenging hike with great views in an austere setting.  We definitely found it austere, with great views and vowed that next time we would bring bivys and fishing poles as traveling with light 10 essentials on this trail will make it more enjoyable.About 0.8 miles up the trail-head I would recommend filling your water bottles at the creek if you are filtering as the next good water source this time of year wont be until after you crest the first ridge before huckleberry creek.  The first gut check will be after you come out of the forest into a clearing (2500ft) of log falls and begin seeing the rocky ridge to your right.  We found the cairns to be the most reliable as I think some of the tape can be deceiving at times.  Also look for the logs that have been cut to clear the trail from time to time.  You will ascend 500 feet to a ridge before dropping down 200ft into a river valley where you can have lunch and fill up your water again.  Take a big rest here, as the next leg is the tougher ascent.  You will have to cross a couple logs here, then follow a trail up about 100 feet before it looks like the trail dead ends....I have included a picture from the bottom of the vale you would almost have to slide into if it weren't for the roots.  Once you get out of this vale, the cairns and tape are pretty accurate the next 1000 feet which you will ascend in about .3miles...I tied my pole to my pack because I was hand over hand a lot of the way up to the awesome views at the top 4100'.  The lakes were worth the hike, but the highlight for me were the views from the ridge above them if you are short on time.  This hike was brutal and lived up to everything.  Some parts of the trails were kind of tricky but we found our way.  Lakes were awesome and no one was there except us.I would like to say I've been on my fair share of backpacking trips in my life, and same with the 2 guys I was with (my husband and our friend). We are all in our late 20's and have all the top gear for such hikes, but we all agreed that this was THE absolute hardest hike we've ever been on. No. Joke. When we got to the lake after a grueling 5.5hr non-stop CLIMB (I would say this was more climbing than hiking, esp. since we had our hands on the rocks/roots/dirt for probably 60% of the time) with our 30+lb packs on, we arrived to find many people (as foolish as us) on the lower lake. We were greeted with the sounds of gunshots, that went on past 10pm, and obnoxious barking dogs from across the lake, as well as a fire (there should be no fires at this elevation). I was absolutely thrilled to have gone through my own version of hell to get to this supposedly remote lake and share it with 15+ people, including the obnoxious hikers who did not have respect for others. All in all: I took a lot of photos because I plan on never going back. I checked that hike off my list! It was beautiful, but not worth it. There are plennnnnty of gorgeous places in the PNW that can be reached with far less blood, sweat, and tears. If you don't take my warning and go anyway, remember this: Once you get to the creek, you're going to be tired, and that's not even the hard part!Also: I would say about 5% of the berries are ripe, and that is only on lower elevations. I only saw 1 patch of snow while there.My wife and I got to the trailhead at 9:00 and got to the first lake by 3:00 pm. Didn't think the trail was as difficult as most say, but not an easy hike. Trail was difficult to follow in several places. Just look for pink and purple ribbon. Will pass a few small ponds before you get to the first lake. These are not the lakes as we thought at first. Even the small lake is a good size lake. The upper lake is HUGE. A worthwhile hike for sure. We camped on a rock on lower lake just as you come up on the lake. The best camp spot on the lake. Fishing was not great. Caught two. Hiked up to the upper lake and there were hundreds of nice size trout. They just didn't want anything to do with my salmon egg. Not sure what the deal was. Plenty of flies and misquitos to go around, so that may have been their food of choice. Upper lake definitely worthwhile to go to. Could not find the middle lake. The FS road has some crude repairs about a mile from the trailhead.  Probably not a good idea to go over with a low riding car/ mini van.  We made it with an afore mentioned mini van, but bottomed out even when going VERY slow.Believe what you have heard about this hike (both the good and the bad).  There are some downed trees across the trail about 3/4 of a mile in which is just a taste of the struggles to come.  Wonderful places to lunch before dropping down to Huckleberry Creek and the climb from hell.When we got to Mildred Lakes Saturday afternoon.  A couple of intoxicated guys showed up at around 8:45 or so, one crying about not being able to go on.  The group across the lake did not read the flier or know the basicis of hiking the Olympics and started a fire (NO FIRES ABOVE 3500 FEET) that they let burn all night.  Smoke stayed on the water and into the campsights until after 3 AM.On the way down met with two guys that were day hiking to Mildred Lakes with a bottle of water each, no water filter or purification methods.  As virtuially all posts say - this is not an easy hike.  Fishing is ok, bring the right bait.  Power Bait is not the bait of choice... Next time I will bring my fly rod or at least some flies to tie onto my bait cast setup.Some snow patches on the way up, a couple at the lakes.  Water is clear of snow and ice, but still VERY COLD.  Hiked into Mildred Lakes to meet a group of friends on Saturday, lost the trail several times on the way up. Keep an eye out for the pink and orange flags on the trail! Had great weather Saturday, with beautiful views. Sunday woke up to clear skies, but clouds came in quickly, leaving us to hike out in the rain.  The hike was tough, but well worth it. Mildred lakes are some of the most beautiful in the Olympics. Nearly no snow on the trail or lakes themselves, just lots of mud and bugs. Gorgeous, yet arduous hike into the largest high Alpine Lake in the Olympics.  It was still 70% covered in Ice and snow, but we managed to find our way and the campsites were dry and sunny.FS Road #25 has been repaired; i.e., all the slides and washouts have been repaired; so, it's no problem driving to the trail head. Partly sunny, hazy day with temps in 60s when I started at 1300 hours (1 PM). Trail to Huckleberry Creek had just a  few blow downs; nothing impassible. No snow 'til I reached the creek; there is about 3' of the white stuff around the crossing and across the creek (see pictures); crossed log to other side and 'cause of snow couldn't find trail and was post holing a bit; decided to call it day and turned back.We barely made it before the snows. 4.5 hr to lower lake, 8 hr total hiking.Lots of Class 2 scrambling on this one.  Over 40 fallen trees to navigate, reportely more if you go to Upper Lake.  First section in beautiful forest, gradual incline.  Second section through steep meadows, frosted over and very cold.  Third section gaining first ridge had a lot of YTD Class 2 scrambling, but most rocks and roots were dry. Fourth section down to creek had less scrambling.  Crossing creek I'd suggest using the fallen tree duo, especially due to ice on the logs (lower tree for feet while using hands on upper log).Fifth section gaining second ridge steep & crazy!  Continual YTD Class 2 icy boulders and roots to hoist up using hands.  Trail hard to find in a couple places (no marker ribbons there).  Descending it might be better with trekking poles.Clear, spectacular views of Sawtooth Ridge from top of second ridge because we had a clear day. Sixth section down to lower lake less steep, but very slippery because of ice.We did not go beyond lower lake (frozen over) because of time.  It was freezing COLD!  I doubt the hike will be doable with snows hitting lower elevations next day.We will definitely do this every year.. challenging and fun!I've always wanted to visit these Lakes, and trust me...it's worth it! My bro and I arrived at the trailhead at 0830, having negotiated 2 large washouts requiring high clearance (i.e. a truck!) Even though there were 2 passenger cars at the trailhead, I would not recommend trying to pass these washouts with your car. The first mile climbs gradually through a dark, boulder-strewn forest, opening to an overgrown avalanche chute of Mt. Washington, which looms high above. A little more forest, (pay attention to the trail, as you may lose track of it here and there. Some pink tape is up to help stay on track), you will then begin your ascent to the first divide (about 3800') Take a break here, because you have geat views of Washington, Stone, Henderson and Skokomish. There are also some campsites just off the trail. Once over the divide you will drop down to the river (A branch of the Hamma Hamma I think). Follow the bank left until you see a solid log crossing. Cross, staying to the right (do not follow the orange tape, it is misleading) You should be okay now, as most of the snow should be gone). You will see a some pink tape at the base of the hillside after crossing some logs in a marshy area. Negotiate the gully, and begin climbing...and climbing...and climbing...you get the idea. Eventually you will make the second and higher divide (which also has a camping area, and water is within a reasonable distance. There are several cairns here to help you navigate the snow. Shortly, you will begin to descend from the divide. There is one last rock cairn as you begin to descend. Instead of going right, just go straight down the hill at that last cairn and BAM! you'll bump right into the first lake. We utilized this shortcut on the way back and it saved us 30 min easy. It took us another 30 min to get to the big lake, as walking the lakeshore of the first lake was a bit nasty. Take your time to enjoy this beautiful area! The small lake is especially pretty, though you will get the best views of the Sawtooth range from the largest lake. We met a great family with their kids (8-9 y/o). Fantastic Hike, well worth the punishment!The trail was nice and dry. There are alot of snags, and downed trees over the trail. You loose the trail thru the first portion of the hike about 5 or 6 times. Fortunately there were stripped orange ribbons marking the tough parts.We made it all the way to Upper Mildred Creek, but the trail disappears under the snow. The creeks still has about 6 foot of snow pack on it. We turned back at this point since it was our first time on the trail.We met another couple at the top, and they had the same experience that we did.On our return trip we saw the foot prints of the couple that came down prior to us. Inside their tracks were cougar tracks. This really got our attention, and the head went on a swivel for the whole way back.We had our bear bells out and were talking loudly to announce our presence. All in all it was a great day.FR 25 has 5 ea. washout areas. Two of these are significant obstacles. It is best if your vehicle has good ground clearance. There were two smaller cars at the trailhead. Both had rocker panel damage, and more than likely undercarriage damage also. One had a tire going flat. So make sure you are prepared for the trip.There is rubble over the road about 4 miles before the trailhead.  Trucks made it through, but lesser vehicles mostly did not.Lost trail in the snow about half way up so didn't make it to the lakes.The weather for the hike was awesome.  Hike starts off gradual enough for the 1st mile.  Then you cross an area that had a slide seems like it must of been a decade back,  with a nice sunny opening and good trail.  The hike continued up with lots of the root wades people talk about and very uneven terrain.  You then get to the river where you cross on the log it is kinda self explanitory at least to me it was.  Now you start hill climbing.  You get to the little revine that you climb down on root wades it is strait up and down, I thought it was very cool.  Now you got to get ready for the straight uphill that goes on forever it seems.  Lots of loose rock and root wades very tough.  This is not for the hiker that wants a leisurely stroll, very tough.  Then after what seems like forever you make it to the top of peak or whatever you want to call it.  Now you got to start paying attention cause the high country not much underbrush so easy to get off track.  We got off a little bit but once you find the trail it like how did I miss that.  You start hearing the river and you think I am almost there and you are but remember you dont cross the Hamma Hamma river.  We figured that out on the GPS and once again did a little back tracking because trails go then just end.  Once you get to the 1st lake it is everything you were expecting and more great views few people, except for us there is always that one loud obnoxious idiot across the the lake yelling, cusing what an awesome honey hole he hit.  Plenty of camp sites to be away from everyone.  There was a total of about 10 people up there.  The second day we hit the other lakes just as awesome as the 1st.  Fishing is great, the views are great, and the misquitos suck.  It is a hike for the person who wants to test there toughness cause it aint easy.   The trail won. I had to give up and turn around at Huckleberry creek. The days are getting short and I lost the trail too many times. There are very misleading orange ribbons marking the trail, I don't know who left them but I wish they had cut them down on the way out. Other colors of ribbons in the trail were very helpful but the orange ones did not always follow the trail and often made no sense.4 hours up and only 2 hours down. I ignored the orange ribbons on the way down.This trail really needs the Mount Rose Trail crew to works it's magic on it. I wonder if it even takes the best route. Maybe going up the Hamma Hamma river and then turning left up to the lakes would be a saner route?Someday I'll see Mildred Lakes.Same as usual, there were a serveral trees down accrosed many parts of the trail. the level of all the lakes was high compared to the past couple of years. and more hikers are using the trail this year. finding the campsite you want may be challengingIf you read the former reports for this hike, you know that Mildred Lakes Trail has a reputation for being rough and tough. In this regard, I have little more to add. Yes, indeed it is rooty, rocky and there are lots of blow-downs to crawl over and under. But, if you are an experienced hiker and want a bit of a challenge with beautiful scenery, I say, ""Go for it!"" Just take trekking poles and allow plenty of time if you aren't staying at the lakes.The trail receives little maintenance, but the path is quite discernible all the way to the first lake. Someone has been thoughtful enough to provide pink and yellow flagging all along the trail. This comes in handy in a few spots, so pay close attention as you hike. As a back-up, refer to Robert Woods' Olympic Mountains Trail Guide (The Mountaineers); this is an excellent resource for planning.Now the good stuff... Flowers were blooming everywhere. I won't even begin to name them all, but we counted over 30 species blooming, including bluebells, beargrass, avalanche lilies, marsh marigold, shooting star, bunchberry and twinflower. We saw several black-tail deer along the road leading to the trailhead, several chipmunks, little froglets scampering in wet puddles and plenty of trout swimming and jumping at the lakes. Sadly, we did encounter an injured bald eagle as we were returning from the second lake. It was perched on a log-jam in the creek, just before the creek enters the first lake. It had an injured wing and only hopped away as we approached. We got some good pictures at least and reported the injured bird to the Forest Service, who explained there wasn't much they could do, especially now that bald eagles have been de-listed.We made it to two of the three Mildred Lakes. It was a gorgeous day in the 80s with nary a cloud in the sky. So, after the brutal work-out to get to the lakes, we couldn't help but jump in at the second (and largest) lake, our turning point. Yes, the water WAS cold, but it felt AWESOME on such a hot day. The second lake is reportedly the largest subalpine lake in the Olympics at nearly 40 acres. It's a gem. We had it to ourselves...sigh! On the way out, we saw five backpackers heading into camp there.Finally, a couple of words of wisdom. The flies and mosquitoes are OUT IN FORCE! I normally don't use DEET, but caved after the relentless attacks. So, be warned. Also, we did this as a day hike at nearly 11 miles roundtrip. It's doable in mid-summer as such, but coming from Seattle, it involved an entire day from door-to-second lake-to-door. Plan accordingly, leaving home early OR just pack in and stay at one of the lakes--although I don't EVEN want to think of hoisting a pack up that mile-long root-rock ladder! Have fun and be safe if you go!Goober Canari and I decided on attempting Mildred Lakes, especially after reading some other write-ups on this site that made the hike sound very challenging. The weather report was iffy but we ended up having fairly nice weather. The first mile of the trail has had some maintenance but little after that. We did not find the route that hard to follow as there were ribbons on trees every so often and also cairns where appropriate. The last mile before the lakes was especially steep. Blowdowns on the route but most easy to get around. A dry creek bed at one point must be climbed down and back up again (use the tree roots). Toward the top I was stung by a bee. The swarm was not large but I was hit quick. I noticed other reports in the past from victims of the bees (Trailhead Quigley in '01 and Terry Kottwitz in '03). Goober used his mountain mojo to escape the wrath of the venomous insects and we continued on to the lakes. Some impressive craggy peaks ring the lakes. It takes a bit longer and a slight downhill to get to the largest lake. Nice spot for lunch. We saw some fish jumping in the lake but hadn't brought poles to try our luck. Did not note any trash or debris at the campsites as noted in previous reports. On the way down encountered the bees again; ran past their nest and managed to stay upright. Encountered a couple of folks heading up (had not seen anyone earlier). I found this hike to be quite enjoyable with a companion of similar abilities. It is challenging and a really good conditioning hike. Back at the car, Goober & I toasted cold Summer Wheat Ales (obviously left over from earlier hikes)to a great day in the beautiful Olympics!OK, so I'd read the reports over the years of this trail being challenging, but figured that it could'nt be THAT bad. Well I was wrong. We had scratched other spots for this weekend (Lake Rachel near Easton) due to heavy snowpack, and settled on Mildred Lakes because we'd never been there and figured ""How much snow can there be below 4000 feet."" So my partner and I, both ex-Marines, gathered up 7 Boy Scouts and headed for the trail.  In light drizzle, but pleasant hiking temps, we began the descent. Not too bad until we ran into a couple who had turned around at the river because of snowpack. They discouraged us from continuing, but we decided to investigate for ourselves. There was indeed a fair amount of snowpack in the river basin, but it was compact and traversable with caution. The snowpack was undermined in places by streams and such, so falling through was a danger, but it seemed predictable, so we continued on. Very quickly the climb began, and it was as others had described...tough going...especially since we were one of the first groups to attempt it this year (No footprints...). The trail markers were oblierated in places, and the trail itself was often snowcovered for substantial distances, so the map was our friend. We finally crested the upper ridgeline, and looked down into a mostly snow-covered bowl. We headed down to the first lake, and immediately ran into serious snowpack and meltage. REALLY tough going, but we made the lake, still half frozen over, and selected a snow bowl at the far end to camp in. 7 HOURS TO GO 5 MILES...We were tired and hungry.  We stayed the night, woke up to a beautiful morning, and I took some time to do a little fishing. No Luck! We left camp about 11:00 and the trip out took 5 hours. Arrived back at the trailhead tired and sore, but unbeaten...R and I headed up the trail from the end of the Hamma Hamma road, with a day trip in mind. We had heard the trail is tough, and one section just before the lakes turned out to be that tough!Wandering through what had to have been younger second growth, we came across the avalanch path at the foot of Pershing Peak. That time of the am the fog was out and we could only see the ridge where the avalanch must have started, later in the day with clear skys we could see the avalanches must have come off of Pershing.Lots of blueberries around and huckle berries this weekend, we picked a bunch. Made it down to the river crossing no problem - then began the real ascent up what might have been called scrambling territory. Good foot holds and handholds too - but you'll want people with experinece in your party.Topping out at one ridge above the lake, it felt like a sub-alpine area. The Sawtooth Ridge was in and out of clouds like a mystery. Got down to the small lake, ate lunch - then trekked through to the large lake - going cross country for the fun of it I guess.Picked some more berries there - and looked at lots of left over things from people before, tarps, scraps etc all over - come on people, take more care!Headed back about 3:30 taking our time down - made it back to the cars at 6:30pm. With clear skies it would be wonderfully amazing, as it was, it was wonderful. No Bugs either. Met lots of folks camping up there, and one group climbing, hope they made it up Cruiser!Started out Thursday morning for the first overnighter of the season. After reading many of the reports here & with a 40lb. pack I expected it to be a rough one. I was pleasantly suprised to find that the trail was not as bad as I first anticipated. This does not mean that this is not a rough & rocky trail with lots of roots & rocks to scramble up and down. It was just not as difficult as I had imagined. The route is flagged very well with pink ribbon & route finding was not an issue. These three lakes are very beautiful lakes with great views of Lincoln, Pershing, Cruiser, etc. in the background. My personal favorite is what I would call the ""3rd lake"". When you reach the second lake (the big one) take the path that leads North & this will lead to the last lake. This lake has lots of big rock lying all about & has Pershing in the background. I also saw less evidence of garbage at this lake. The mosquitos are out in full force, trying to eat us alive. One word of caution, this trail can be very slippery when it is raining & wet. Even though nobody in our party had a tumble the next day when returning, we were watching our foot placement very carefully. The first picture is the ""big lake"" with Lincoln in the background. The second picture is the ""3rd lake"" to the North with Pershing in the background.I'd never been this way before, so figured it was worth checking out for an overnight trip. The trail is in pretty good shape, despite quite a bit of windfall and brushy spots, and it was a bit difficult to follow in places, but the route is well flagged as long as you're paying attention. No snow anywhere, and the wildflowers are beginning to bloom at the higher elevations. Gotta say, the last mile is a tough one, similar in grade to the lake constance or lake of the angeles trail. Definintely wouldn't want to have to come down that in the rain. The mosquitos were out in force at the lakes, so bring bug spray.Upon returning, I found two of my car windows smashed out, as well as windows smashed out on 7 other cars along the Hamma Hamma road. Nothing was stolen. I really don't understand what drives some people to do this. Looked like they were targeting Subarus in particular.A beautiful day to hike to Mildred Lakes or to any lake for that matter. We only planned to hike up to the slide area but because we traveled so light we were ready to trudged on to the river. The slide area has improved greatly from the first time I encountered it nine years ago and even from the past three years. Thank you to the hard working people. The trail is still littered with boulders and roots. The shady parts of the forest, especially near the river, were infested with mosquitoes. My father at one point got bite on the left hand and then the right, one right after the other. You see the first few patches of unmelted snow in the shade near the river, but there is very little. The river is a bit low too. Advice for those who haven't hiked this trail before, make sure your boots fit your feet and supported your ankles. It can be painful with all the scrambling down, on the way back, if the shoe doesn't fit.I started out at 10AM on a cool, sunny day. The first mile or so is not bad, climbing moderately in dark forest. Then you reach the big slide, where a hundred yards of the trail has been wiped out, replaced by a chaotic jumble of boulders and downed trees. There is a rough detour route flagged around the lower end of the slide. This is no picnic, and not too easy to follow either.Once you get by the slide, the trail resumes climbing and becomes hard to follow in spots. Eventually the grade gets pretty steep as you approach the crest of the first ridge. Here the trees open up a bit and you get some views to Mts. Pershing and Cruiser. Next you lose a few hundred feet, dropping to a nice creek, which however is at a very low level in this dry year.After crossing the creek, the trail goes all to hell. It leads you on a scramble down and across a steep ravine, then heads pretty much straight up, gaining 1000' or so in a ridiculously steep stretch without any switchbacks. As difficult as this was for me on this dry day with a day pack, I can't imagine any sane person climbing that grade with an overnight pack when the trail was muddy.At the top of this second ridge, there are nice open rocky meadows with views, a nice reward for all the hard work you've just done. Then another down-grade over more rough trail, where you start seeing some (mostly dried-up) ponds, and finally reach the first lake. It's another 1/3 mile to the second, and largest, lake, in a nice setting with Mt. Lincoln and Mt. Cruiser looming above.After a brief rest I continued on to the third lake, which has rockier shores than the other two. Here I stopped for lunch. On the way back, I lost the trail for a while just past the first lake, but persevered for 1/4 mile on a faint way trail that eventually linked back up with the main one. Near the top of the ridge, I ran into a very tired-looking group of three backpackers I'd passed in the morning right near the trailhead. Four hours later, and they were still a mile and a half from their destination!Then, while heading down the steepest part of the second ridge, I heard the ominous buzzing of many bees! I'm slightly allergic, so I freaked out, bounding down the steep trail in an attempt to escape the attacking squadron. Somehow I got stung only twice, on the legs, and managed to avoid breaking my neck in the process of escaping. Beware!What I thought would be a moderately challenging trail turned out to be probably the toughest one, mile for mile, that I've ever hiked. To use a golfing term, this one plays longer than the yardage would indicate! It's not so much the steep slopes, but the tread itself is ""unconstructed"", with roots and rocks everywhere to dodge and step over. There are almost no stretches of any length where you can just get into a good stride and make some time. The lakes are very nice, and worth the effort, I think. Not for the faint of heart!Don't miss the view from the bridge over the Hamma Hamma just before you get to the trailhead. You have to get out of your vehicle to see anything, but it's an awesome view down into a slot canyon with some falls.Here's the latest on the Mildred Lakes Trail:The washout has been filled in (again, thankfully) so you can drive right up to the trailhead. My wife and I headed up to the halfway point at the creek just below the beginning of the second (hellish) ridge. The flies were the worst I've seen up there and seemed to stay with us from the blowdown all the way to the creek. We met a couple who had stayed the weekend at the lakes and were headed out. According to them the flies aren't bad at the lakes but there is plenty of garbage (including lot's of t.p.) at the big lake. Someone had dumped their leftover food (so they wouldn't have to pack it out) inbetween the second and third lakes - lot's of it, I guess. There was a Black Bear reported seen at the second lake two weeks ago according to the registry (which was out of entry sheets when we got there). Also a group of hikers left their fire burning and this couple we ran into had to put it out. This is the second weekend this has happened according to the last report. PLEASE people: NO FIRES!! They were never legal up there, anyway. This hike is WORK. Personally, I'm really out of shape and this hike is the worst I've been on as far a steep goes, and that is on the second ridge. NOT for first-timer's, especially with a pack. And if anyone is crazy enough to go all the way up there without plans on staying a night or two, more power to you! Definately a work out! Have fun and stay safe and 'pack it out'! Trailhead QuigleyMade a second trip to the Mildred Lakes (after a decade) and enjoyed a four-night stay. Enjoyed the scenery, the fishing, the solitude, but not the unmaintained trail. What appears to have been a snowslide - now downed trees - blocks the trail not more than two miles from the trailhead, and the detour (marked by orange ribbons and cairns) is a fairly arduous semi-scramble over rocky ground.Those familiar with the trail know it is no picnic at best. All maintenance is within a mile of the trailhead - after that it's detour after detour around blowdowns and the aforementioned slide.I have to complain about the sorry condition of the campsites at the upper lakes - too much trash left by users. Jerks, the beer cans you carried in weigh nothing in comparison when empty. Take them with you. Same for the propane cannisters, wet clothing, and food wrappers. Get a clue.We noted a group of five ill-prepared youths who may have been responsiible for nearly causing a forest fire that could have trapped us at the lakes. It appears they lit a campfire along the trail on the natural duff and failed to fully extinguish it - even though ALL fires were banned in the ENTIRE region. We learned of the fire from hikers who came in after them, and who spent effort and energy digging out the smoldering roots and putting the fire out, even spending some of their drinking water to do so. On our way out we saw the location of the fire. The five tyros had told us they had to way-camp on the way in, so it seems likely they were the culprits.As a first-of-the-season shake-down overniter we chose the 3200' ridge along the Mildred Lakes Way as a destination, in hopes it would provide snow-free, scenic camping among close-up mountains. That it delivered. Therefore the scope of this report is of the trail only to that point (actually Huckleberry Creek), not all the way to the lakes. This trail's notoriety for being rough & nasty is entirely deserved. It's routing and gradient, going straight up hillsides, over boulder fields, & up stream beds, then meandering pleasantly up through forests, suggest something created entirely by improvisation rather than design. The surface can go from reasonably smooth dirt through the more level stretches, to nothing but rock and exposed roots (about 90% of the trail) requiring your attention to be focused entirely on locating your next footfall. The worst part is the detour around a semi-recent avalanche, taking you boulder-hopping below a zone of downed trees stripped from the mountainside in a very St. Helenish fashion. Once the ridge was attained we found a very scenic camp-spot atop a large rock visible from the trail on the right, which gave an almost perfectly level tent site as well as a 360 degree view of the surrounding peaks through the mountian hemlocks. The next day we went down to Huckleberry Creek, allegedly .5 miles further. It meanders through a pleasant bottomland of big trees with flat camping sites inbetween. We followed it upstream a short ways to where it suddenly shot down a narrow slot gorge into a pool, & above that another mini-waterfall. Directly above that, we encountered a tributary flowing from the left, which we followed through a level moss-covered swale to a series of pretty, shallow little lakes set in trees with the crags of Pershing looming over all. This trail is definitely not for those susceptible to ankle problems, like my poor wife who had to sit out most of last summer due to a sprain, & who felt the ""guitar strings"" of her ankle get plucked with every other step. Unlike a trail where you can just let you feet find the way & let your eyes sail among the trees and mountaintops, hiking this trail is like a chess game, where every move is calculated & a wrong step, especially downhill, can result in a twisted ankle, a crash into a rock, or at best, a bruised ego. It's a great place for those willing to accept the challenge.Road open to end of Hamma Hamma Rd and Mildred Lakes trailhead. Unmaintained trail, 4-miles to 1st lake took us 5 hours up and 4 hours down with full packs and not rushing. This is not a Sunday stroll hike but climbs two ridges before reaching the first Lake.Avalanche at mile 2 can be easily crossed over downed trees if you keep the end in sight. Otherwise you must hike down and around the slide an additional 1/8 mile- not hard but just another detour.Lakes are lovely beneath Lincoln and the Cruiser. Lake #2 is prettiest with large house-sized avalanche boulders from the Sawtooth Range.Not many hikers on this trail. Hard but not too hard, not for kids and not for the out of shape, but for those who want to try a new trail.We chose this over a 'harder' Upper Lena through St Peter's Gate to Lake of the Angels hike.... this was harder.Road is washed out 4 miles before the trailhead. Still a fair amount of snow in the Mildred Lakes basin. The two small lakes are snow free, and the large lake is still 50% ice. A couple campsites are snow free at the second (large) lake as well as the third upper lake. Going in we lost the trail after hitting the ridge and had a rough time trying to follow the mapped trail. Coming out, we stayed north of the outlet streams and then crossed below the outlet of the first lake. This proved to be much easier than bushwacking in the snow along the south ridge line. Very scenic hike, but not worth the work for the one night we camped. I personally would plan a longer stay or wait for the road to get fixed.On a warm and sunny Sunday, Kar and I decided to reconnoiter the Mildred Lakes way trail with the two pups. The washout on the road looked little changed from our last visit to the Hamma Hamma, about two years ago. We parked there, crossed the washout, and headed up the pleasant, carless road - about a 3.5 mile trip to the trailhead. Violets, a red currant and a few paintbrush were out along the road, and we had fine views of the rushing Hamma Hamma, lava cliffs towering nearby, and snowclad Pershing and Jefferson as we neared the bridge at road's end. After lunch here we headed up the trail - again not much changed in the past two years, a couple easily negotiated trees on the trail. Until just beyond a mile we came up to the big avalanche chute full of knock downs. The flags on either side were easy to see in the midday sun, and with leashed pups we decided to descend to the boulders below to find a way across. It's not a problem with a little patience. There was snow on the other side and a returning party reported 3 feet of snow in the valley on the other side of the little ridge just ahead of us (still about 2 miles from the lakes) so we turned here and headed back. A most pleasant walk. Trillium and orchids were definitely out along the trail about halfway from the trailhead to the avalanche chute.The washouts on the road to the trailhead have been leveled out, allowing access to the trailhead. You will not need a four-wheeler to get there at the time of this report. Many hikers up at the lakes - day hikers and backpackers. At the land-slide one mile up the trail, there apparently has been a re-route of the trail below the tangled mess of trees. I wish I'd known that on the way up. Crossing over the blowdown is a little 'hairy' and time consuming. Look for markers.Bee activity was high and the deer flies hungry. Blueberries all around. I was stung twice and heard from another group of hikers one of theirs' had been stung also. I think a nest had been kicked up because these (bee attacks) instances happened in the same area - about a hundred yds. past the blow-down.Weather and fishing were great. It's a pain of a hike (this coming from an 'out-of-shape' individual. I swore 15 years ago I'd never do it again. This was my fourth visit. I still say it every time I go up there.Have a good time.Yeah, Mildred Lakes is a pretty tough prospect right now. I used the first part of the trail to get on Mt. Pershing. As you may already know, the Hamma-Hamma road is washed out about 4 miles from the end/trailhead. I got around this by packing a mountain bike. The trail is seriously washed out about a mile in, see previous reports and heed their warnings. I flagged the trail on both sides of the washout (avalanche path) with pink tape. Beyond the washout, I left the trail and headed up country, so I can't speak to it's condition, except that there's a lot of snow, and that the trail register seemed to indicate that someone made it to the lakes within the last week. Good luck!The Hamma Hamma road is in great shape right up to the washout at 10 miles. I parked there with about 12 other vehicles, and hiked the road to the trailhead (about 4 miles). My curiosity was piqued by a lone set of tire tracks on the road, and sure enough, at the Putvin Trail Parking lot (about 2 miles beyond the washout) there was a Mazda SE-5 pickup with high traction tires and a fair amount of clearance underneath. It would appear that with some vehicles, drivers can get through. But with the vigorous flow through the washout, there aren't any guarantees about getting the truck back down. The walk on the road was great - with no vehicle traffic it's quiet, and the roadside vegetation gets a break from the usual summer dusting. Flowers were best along the road on this day - twin flower, daisies, paintbrush, foxglove, bunch berry, an orange lilly just getting ready to bloom, and many others I can't name without a handbook. The Hamma Hamma was roaring under the bridge at the road end, well worth the trip for the views up and down valley here. The four miles on the road took only an hour, so I had visions of a brief visit to the Lakes. Optimism waned at the register, where earlier hikers left sundry laments about losing the trail, bushwacking, landslides, and so on. In particular, none of the entries mentioned reaching the lakes. The first mile of the trail was just fine, same as in previous years, plus a couple of blow downs that were easily negotiated. Just beyond 1 mile, the trail disappears beneath a pile of downed trees that marks the edge of the landslide. I dropped down about 50 feet and found a place to work across the slide (about 60 yards wide) - this has to be done CAREFULLY because the trees that make up the ""surface"" of the slide are in many cases balanced precariously so it would be easy to break an ankle or worse in here. The pile of trees is insulating the snow underneath, and there's no telling what kind of problem the hiker might fall into when this snow starts to give under the weight. On the far side of the slide I lost the trail due to snow cover. Met another party descending the snow gully above the slide - they had reached the ridge, located the trail there and descended to the creek crossing near the 2.5 mile mark. They reported snow all over the trail down to the creek, high water in the creek, and no ""safe"" log for getting across. Since I was on my own, and they were the last party coming out, I decided to turn around rather than risk a tumble into the creek with nobody around to help. The return trip on the road was pleasant, though, with more flower viewing and great vistas of Mt. Bretherton.Our goal was to finish the Enchantments in  8-10hrs in 1 day. We parked a car at each trail head. 1 at Snow Lakes  and 1 at Stuart Lake. We started at Stuart Lake trailhead 3:30 am. We jogged flat and downhill parts. I felt great for the first 8hrs, but then started crashing as my muscles grew tired and sore. We shuffled our way to the end and ended up finishing at exactly 9hrs. We had a great day!This was a trip that Steve had wanted to do for a long time.  Now at 65 he decided he shouldn't wait.  Me at 75 had put it off for a long time so decided to go with him and his young son Steven (29yo).  Steve and I stayed overnight in Leavenworth the night before and after the one day trip.  Starting out Thursday morning, Steven met us at the Snow Lake trailhead where he left his car while we all drove to the Lake Stuart trailhead.  We departed up the trail to Colchuck Lake at 0530 in order to reach the Snow Lakes trailhead before dark.  After a short break at Colchuck we continued up the most grueling part of the trip - Aasgard Pass at 7800'.  We arrived on top about 1115, took in the spectacular view with our cameras and continued on, knowing it was &quot;all downhill from here&quot;.  The views continued all around us but we knew we could not stop very long so we shot photos and ate snacks along the way, following the route marked with Cairns.  A few times we lost the route but backtracked and regained it again.  Every once in a while we saw tents set up and some climbers making their way down from a peak.  There was a lot of snow above 6000' and water flowing from it.  We did stop several times to filter the snow-melted water which probably didn't need any filtering.  But with the many goats and other critters around we thought it best.  There were so many lakes we went by and so little time that we did not know their names.  Except for the few that Steve looked up on his map.  It was a lot of walking and we finally got to the Snow Lake trailhead at 2030, while it was still light.  The total distance according to my GPS track was 18.82 miles in 15 hours.Hiked the Enchantments for the first time this past Saturday.  My good friend Justin obtained a permit through the lottery this past spring so 8 of us stayed in Leavenworth Friday night and Saturday set out for a 4 day trip.  We took a slow pace, since most of us had packs that weighed over 60 pounds.  One of our friends had never backpacked before and his pack weighed in somewhere around 85 pounds!  Aasgard pass was pretty difficult for some of us needless to say.  Bugs were a bit of a nuisance at Colchuck, but really bad down around nada lake.  The bugs were much less of a problem in the core zone and that's where you really want to spend all your time anyway, if you get the chance to stay overnight.      The snow was a little bit of an issue.  I did go into one free slide while walking down the trail to Inspiration Lake.  Some of the snow gave way and I couldn't do much to slow myself down, Finally stopping after a 50-60 foot slide down a fairly steep incline.  Had the existing wall from packed snow not stopped me, I would have slid right down into the lake.  Probably the scariest moment I've had hiking personally.  My friend Willy had a similar hiccup, and even rolled his ankle pretty badly after stepping on some snow that gave way.  His leg fell through the hole that opened up, getting thigh deep before his foot finally found a rock.  We were probably packed way too heavy, but weight adds up quickly when you're preparing for 4 days worth of hiking.  And we're big boys to start with.  I only mention this for anyone planning this hike who is larger than average, or carrying a very heavy pack.  There is a lot of snow to cross just in the Upper Enchantments, especially if you want to climb Little Annapurna.      I brought crampons since i had read trail reports about crossing icy areas, but honestly I should have kept them at home.  Snow shoes would have been better for some of the larger snowfields, although someone without as large a pack or frame (i weighed in at 350 lbs with my pack) probably wouldn't have to worry about any snow footwear.     Goats are plentiful, and now I know why everyone who hikes the Enchantments comes back with pictures of them.  I wouldn't call them aggressive -- at least not at this time during the summer.  But they are definitely a little too comfortable around people.  We saw people being very friendly with them and it's important to remember they're wild animals and aren't there for you to tame or feed.  Shout at them, throw rocks towards them, help them to protect themselves and you.  My friend Aaron came unpleasantly close to some goat horns while he was urinating between the rocks a little ways from our campsite near Perfection Lake.     The water is really cold everywhere but we were all so hot and sore we couldn't help but swim every chance we got.   Even up at the snow covered lake at the top of Aasgard Pass.. I think it was Tranquil Lake.  That was some of the best fun of the whole trip.  My favorite stop of the trip was at Leprechaun Lake.  We had lunch there one day and ended up staying for several hours diving off rocks and swimming.  It was very beautiful.     There was a stellar campsite that we didn't get to use but if we go back we definitely will.  Coming from Aasgard Pass, at the end of perfection lake or Sprite Lake there is a campsite immediately to the right of the trail.  We were exploring and walked further up the hill to get a vantage point of what else was around us.  There was an incredible place to camp at the very top of the hill, with breathtaking 360 degree views.  You could see the waterfall we camped next to at Perfection Lake, a beautiful view of Little Annapurna (you could see the hikers going up and coming down), The Temple, Leprechaun Lake, etc.  All situated in a kind of bowl carved out of the mountain, with enough sandy areas for our 4 tents no problem.  It was a truly magical place.  If you go that way make sure to explore a bit.       All in all, one of the most beautiful places I've ever set foot in, let alone had the pleasure to camp at.  If you are able, pack light.  It will make a huge difference.  Other than that just watch your footing and have a great time.Day hiked the Enchantment, starting at Stuart/Colchuck Lake and ending at Snow Lake. Snow field at the top of Aasgard previously mentioned in prior trip reports still there. We were comfortable without putting on spikes, however, we did break out poles for that section. Snow patches through both Upper and Lower Enchantments, however they were easy to cross with some minor sliding. Poles were very helpful and recommended, we only saw one person using traction. Snow bridges are rapidly melting out, and water is clearly running under numerous sections, so use caution- as the snow is melting water is running high and crossings were more challenging than we have experienced in early - mid August. We did not have any water running over the Snow Lake dam. All blowdowns for the entire trail have been cleared. Overall, the trail was easy to follow and cairns are clearly visible for the majority through Snow Lake.The plan had been to win the daily lottery and acquire a camp permit for the Core. Waking up at midnight to see the moon and stars while surrounded by those jagged peaks would be something. Unfortunately, the weather forecasts were highly foreboding. So we pushed the trip a day and decided to make it a day hike. (And of course, the weather forecast couldn't have been more wrong)We started at the Snow Lakes trailhead. Yes, this is probably the more difficult direction to go (as opposed to starting at the Stuart trailhead), but I always defer to more uphill than down if given the choice. The trail is in great shape. A few brushy areas hear and there, but no obstructions. We made good time all the way through to Upper Snow Lake. I was very surprised to see that lakes up to this point are actually man-made, allowing for irrigation throughout the summer for the Levenworth area. The bugs were a bit annoying near the lakes, but I learned from a hiking partner that a mosquito's max flight speed is 1 mph. Not sure if this is true, but the idea kept us cruising well above that threshold. As we left Upper Snow Lake behind, the climbing really began. Cairns were our compass from here on out. Usually, the cairns were in abundance and easy to follow. There were times, however, they kind of disappeared for a time. This was when having a map at our disposal was invaluable. More than once we started following a trail only to check the map and realize we were on the wrong side of a lake. They were beautiful detours though. At any rate, lots of climbing/bouldering on our way to Lake Viviane. And what an incredible lake it was. It was my first visit. Amazing. The mosquitos were abundant, but I didn't care. We had a lot more miles to go. So off we went. Never saw another mosquito until Lake Colchuck. Next up, Leprechaun Lake, the first of our semi-accidental detours. My advice, if you have a choice between following a trail or a cairn, pick the cairn. Unless you're not in a hurry, than just be free to your feeling. You can't go wrong. Lake after lake, jagged peak after jagged peak. This place is truly enchanting. Lots of snow still. Nothing difficult to cross with our trail runners. Just be careful. And lots of goats. It almost seemed like they had agreed upon territories and would patrol there particular areas, waiting for the next hiker with a full bladder to come through. Remember, don't pee on the foliage.The clouds were blackening all around us as we approached Asgard Pass. This is definitely the most sketchy part of the hike, but if you take is slow and easy, it's not all that bad. We tried to stay to the right and the switchbacks got us down just fine. There is one short snow patch to cross. It's not a problem though. And it didn't even rain on us. WooHoo!Once at the bottom, the long, two mile stretch of intermittent bouldering begins. And as I like to say, the longest 5 miles of trail in WA. This is the second time I've done this stretch and it's surprised me how long it takes each time. Once we got to the Lake Stuart intersection, it was 2.6 miles of easy trail. All in all, we hiked 20-ish miles in 14 hours. It was an amazing, if a bit longer than expected, day. Can't wait to come back up in the fall to see the larches turn fiery gold.Started at Colchuck TH around 10 PM with the hopes of catching the nearly full moon when I hit the lake. The trail was in good condition and made ok time up to the lake. Spectacular moon playing hide and seek behind the peaks as I approached the lake. Route finding was a little tricky around the lake in the dark but if you took your time it wasn't super hard to follow the trail. The reflection of stars and the moon in the lake was awesome! Started the climb up Aasguard hoping to hit the top in time for the sunrise. No problem route finding in the dark as there are plenty of carins to follow. The only snow was close to the top and about 20 yards long. I crossed carefully and without issue or traction devices. I was almost to the top when the sun started painting the peaks. I had to stop and watch as it was incredible!!! I hit the top and climbed onto the table rock at the high point 10 minutes before the sun broke over the peak.  Hung out at the pass for about 20 minutes before starting my decent down to the Snow Lake TH. Lots of snow still left on the upper reaches of the Enchantments. Yaktracks helped as the snow was still hard. I suspect later in the day this stuff would slush out a bit. Route finding wasn't too difficult; there were boot tracks and carins to follow.  Came across about 15 goats raiding someones camp. I don't think the camper knew they were there as it was still early. As I passed several folks stirred in one tent and I saw a head poke out. As I passed the goats started to move towards me. I think they were looking for food. I shoo'ed them away and kept moving down uneventfully back to the TH arriving roughly 15 hours after i started. it was an amazing trip!We hiked to Upper Snow Lake, camped two nights, and day-hiked as far as Leprechaun Lake. The weather was spotty the whole time: intermittent rain. thunderstorms, some sun. A few things surprised me about this hike: once you reach the Snow Lakes crossing at 6.5 miles, you still have close to another 2 miles to go in dark forest until you reach the end of the upper lake (I'd expected more alpine terrain); we had 8 people in 5 tents, and the campsites were a little small for this many tents (we should have consolidated better); the hike from our campsite to Lake Vivienne, the first of the lakes, was quite a long scramble, steeper than I thought, and I couldn't imagine wanting to do it more than once; snow still covered most of the upper area. In retrospect, if I did this hike again I would do the following: try to go much later in the summer, reducing chances of snow, rain, and mostly the mosquitos (which were quite annoying); if you have the freedom (we are self-employed) I'd try to get a walk-up permit mid week when you know the weather will be good; plan on camping in the Upper Lakes, or at least giving yourself a long day hike window to enjoy the snow free Upper Lakes. It was still a great trip in many ways, but I'd like to do it with more time, less bugs and snow, and a better sense of what the trip entailed.Short version:  	* Friday morning to Sunday afternoon trip	* Camped Colchuck two nights with four people	* Day hiked Aasgard	* Lots of bugs at Colchuck, hard to find open space	* Aasgard was tough but worth it, wouldn't hike down it next time  Long version: Given our unfamiliarity with the Enchantments, and general experience level of our party, we elected to camp at Colchuck for two nights and make a day hike out of Aasgard on the middle day, despite having scored a Core permit.  We figured that Aasgard was tough enough that we didn't want to do it with a full camping load. Day 1 (Friday July 15)Driving to the Stuart Lake trailhead was simple, as Google Maps brought us all the way there.  I made the drive in my low-clearance Mazda 3 Hatchback, and didn't have much difficulty.  There were lots of cars at the trailhead, but there is ample parking. The hike to Colchuck was simple enough, as the trail is well-marked and easy to follow.  It is not a beginner trail, though, as there is decent elevation gain, as well as challenging river fords.  Still, it's an enjoyable hike with a nice lake at the end. Once we arrived in the Colchuck area, the challenge became finding a campsite large enough for our party.  During the summer campsites are apparently in high demand, so it was worthwhile to arrive early.  We did have to scramble a bit for a location, as we wanted a site as close to Aasgard as possible.  Eventually we found a spot not too far from the lake, but set back into the woods.  The rangers came around 5pm to check our permit, and they were very helpful with information about the area and weather forecasts. Colchuck notes: 	* LOTS of mosquitoes in the wooded areas, bring DEET and long clothes	* Toilets are spread out, and not necessarily easy to access (especially at night)	* Most campsites are practically on top of the main trail, so don't expect privacy	* The lake is beautiful, with lots of jumping fish at dusk and good swimming spots  Day 2 (Saturday July 16)Our party got off to a slow start, with lots of coffee, oatmeal, and water filtering from Colchuck.  We left our campsite at 8:10am, headed for the Enchantments. The trail to Aasgard was fairly well-marked, at least during the relatively flat approach.  Cairns lead the way up to the pass fairly clearly, and we were able to discern our route from just searching for the next visible stone pile.  We did need to head directly up a small creek for a short time, which was confusing, but once we emerged on the boulder field beyond the path became clear again. Once we began the climb up Aasgard proper, the legendary pass showed its true difficulty.  Loose rock and scree make hiking a challenge, as we often slipped out and caused small rock showers below.  Good communication amongst our party was important to help avoid falling obstacles.  We found that while the cairns continued to mark a path, they did not always show the easiest or best route.  Improvisation, communication, and trekking poles were key.  About 3/4 of the way up the pass we encountered our only snow obstacle, which consisted of crossing a snow field approximately 50 meters wide.  There was a clear path stomped out by many hikers that had come before, but the crossing was still challenging for our party members less familiar with snow travel.  Careful use of trekking poles and microspikes made the challenge less intimidating, and we managed it with no major problems. Beyond the snow field, the pass is much more steep but less loose, reminiscent of a rock climbing exercise.  At certain points, hands-and-feet climbing was more effective than trekking poles, and the path was often unclear.  Eventually we made it up through this steep portion and to the Enchantments proper. Once we cleared Aasgard Pass, everything was beautiful.  The Enchantments are true to their name, offering incredible views of the frozen pools, the surrounding peaks, and distant mountain ranges.  The trail through the lakes region is clear, and takes you along a number of wonderful spots for lunch or camping.  We found a good spot out of the wind and feasted on lunch.  During our break, over 15 individual mountain goats were spotted, and several of them came quite close.   They are definitely attracted to human urine (not just a myth), so be careful where you relieve yourself.  They are largely timid, but will engage if challenged.  Don't bother the goats and they won't bother you. After lunch we began the trek back down Aasgard.  This proved to be the most challenging portion of our entire trip, as the loose rock and scree we encountered on the way up became much more dangerous on the way down.  We often needed to avoid the main trail as the dirt would cause easy slippage, so the going was quite slow.  It took us nearly as much time, and much more technical effort, to get back to our campsite at Colchuck. Aasgard notes: 	* The trail up Aasgard is not always apparent, but cairns will generally lead the way	* Loose rock and scree make the Aasgard hiking challenging, especially on the way down	* Mountain goats are adorable, but not to be messed with	* Only one spot of difficult snow travel was required, made easier with poles and microspikes	* Going up Aasgard is physically challenging, but going down is much more technically difficult; would recommend through-hiking  Day 3  (Sunday July 17)Our last day at Colchuck was slightly rainy, but still pleasant.  We woke even later than on Saturday, taking our time with our sore post-Aasgard muscles.  Eventually we packed up camp and hiked out, which would have been a leisurely hike if not for our sore muscles.  By the time we reached our car we were wiped, and happy to grab some burgers on the way back to Seattle.Our group of 7 had the greatest opportunity to backpack the beautiful backcountry of the Enchantments. We camped next to Colchuck Lake facing Dragontail Peak, Aasgard Pass, and Colchuck Peak. The next day we tackled Aasgard Pass with our day pack and explored the beautiful backcountry. It was steep, long, and exhausting but well worth it at the top. There was only one section in the middle of the pass where we had to cross snow. We used our poles and felt safe with it. Saw a lot of people crossing with no poles and wearing tennis shoes and they crossed it fine. Just be weary of your skill level. Once at the top of the pass, that's where our jaws drop. Couldn't believe how beautiful it was. Mountain goats were abundance throughout the Enchantments. Words and pictures can't say enough how beautiful it was. You have to be there in person to experience it!My daughter, son and I did the one-day hike on Monday, July 11th.  The WTA description of the hike is very good and there is a ton of information on-line about it so I won't add much.  I just wanted to update conditions: Hiking up Aasgard Pass, there was little snow: just two small fields to cross but not a problem with just hiking shoes.  Once on top of the pass, I was surprised at how much snow was remaining.  Most of the Core Enchantment Zone remains covered in snow.  {I checked the "intermittent snow" box not because I consider there to be intermittent snow up there -- it was fairly constant -- but because it was not difficult to cross}.  We decided to not even try Little Annapurna because of all the snow.  However, again, it was not difficult to hike up there.  We just hiked in our hiking shoes.  And, it was not difficult to locate the trail or at least follow the route others had already successfully taken. Some of the lakes are basically still completely frozen (near the top). Naturally, the further down in elevation you go, the less ice remains but there's still quite a bit of ice left in several of the upper lakes. From the time we left the Stuart Lakes Trailhead until we got to the Snow (Lakes) Zone (above Upper Snow Lakes), we saw no hikers/backpackers but seven mountain goats.  From Snow Lakes on, there were tons of people. The water across the dam at Lower Snow Lake was running about one to three inches deep. We all kept our shoes on and didn't mind getting our feet wet to cross the dam. One thing that I don't recall reading on the WTA website was a description of the trail through the forests.  This is not a hike to take if you can't lift your feet!  The portion of the trails through the forest is full of roots and ruts.  Also, there were probably twenty trees down across the trail.  None presented a major problem but as those who have hiked this before in one day know, by the end of the day, even crossing downed trees gets a bit more difficult!My party of 5 hiked through on Saturday 7/9. We were eager to get up there and give it a shot, despite the snow. Having done it now, I would wait another 2 weeks before making the trip up there. It's always really pretty, but I think it's got more to offer when the meadows are exposed later in the season. Considering how long it is, you want to maximize the pretty :) As noted by others, there is a small amount of snow on Aasgard pass that you have to traverse. There is an obvious path. We crossed it with hiking boots, but we all thought it was pretty sketchy. The snow is basically frozen solid in the morning and it's super slick. If you were to fall, you'd slide a long way before you got to big rocks below. I'd definitely bring some poles. After you cross the snow, keep an eye out for the cairns. If you hit the stream, you've gone too far to the right. Once at the top of Aasgard its pretty much just snow from the high Enchantments to the Low Enchantments. When it's later in the season and there isn't snow, the change in terrain from high to low is really cool & pretty. With snow it all pretty much looks the same, for what it's worth. All in all, quite the butt kick, but tons of fun. And still worth it!Two day trip from Stuart Lake Trailhead, through the Enchantments Lakes Core Zone to the Snow Lakes Trailhead Day 0 (7/2/16) Overnight at Black pine Campground on Icicle Creek Road. By 13:30, all but 2 of the dozens of first-come first-served campsites at 8 campgrounds along the road were claimed.  Day 1 (7/3/16) Hiked from Stuart Lake trail head at 09:15 where parking was very full. As expected for a holiday weekend, most tenting sites at Colchuck Lake were occupied when we passed through at 12:00-13:00. The trail was clear and dry until the terminal moraine of the Colchuck glacier where we met skiers who'd just finished a run down the glacier. There is a small tenting site at the base of the glacier which was still snowed in and unoccupied. Our group of five with overnight packs and average fitness took 3:45 to climb to Asgard pass which we reached at 18:30. The climb is 99% snow free however there is a snowfield 4/5ths of the way up which must be crossed for about 80 meters. There are tracks of previous hikers who appear to have shortcut the crossing by gaining elevation up the slope however the safest crossing appeared to be a horizontal traverse where steps are cut in to the snow. There is still a risk of falls and post-holing as the field continues to melt. Recommend traction (microspikes or yak tracks) and poles or ice axes. Just the day before a body had been recovered from beneath the ice after a glissading fall in June (http://www.spokesman.com/stories/2016/jul/02/aasgard-pass-casualty-found-by-rescue-team/). We made camp at 19:30 in the upper Enchantments Basin mid-way between Isolation lake and Inspiration lake where there is unfortunately little protection. Overnight: high winds, temps in the lower 30's.  Day 2: (7/4/16) Many goats, no problems. Departed camp at 0900. The upper and middle Enchantments basins are 90% snow covered and most cairns are below the snow pack. As the snow melts, tracks of previous hikers can be difficult to follow. Way finding is slow because of this. Nowhere were crampons or ice axes needed but poles and spikes were very helpful in descents. The 3-4 creek crossings were not difficult. Met only two parties in the entire core zone. In the lower basin near Leprechaun lake and Lake Viviane, the trail was more clear and >50% on dirt. No snow below lake Viviane. Reached the head of Upper Snow lake at 15:30. Water was flowing 6 inches over the dam between the upper and lower lakes and easy to cross barefoot. The entire trail down is clear, dry and well marked, even through a recent rock slide below Nada lake. Reached Snow Lakes Trailhead at 20:20.The Enchantments are one of my most favorite places in the world!  Pristine, magical piece of serenity that is ironically a few hours drive from the city.  Here you will find nothing but picturesque mountains, lakes, vegetation and wildlife that will keep you in awe for the entire duration of your hike.  Each step just gets better, a challenging hike of a lifetime!   Five of us just completed a four day trip through the Enchantments from Friday through Monday carrying large packs.  All of us have a range of mountaineering experience and three out of the five have been through the Enchantments before during clear conditions (late summer) and have gone through both entrances each way.   Before starting the Enchantments, we diligently watched the weather reports and called the ranger station.  We also made sure to stop at the ranger station on Friday morning in Leavenworth and speak with the rangers about any hazards, advice and weather patterns.  I would recommend going to REI and purchasing a map for $8 of the Enchantments that show you camping/toilet locations and also the trail, elevation, etc.  It is much more comprehensive than what is at the ranger station and worth every penny.  We decided to delay our trip and post-pone going up Aasgard Pass Friday due to variable weather conditions, and instead decided to hike into Colchuck lake, camp the night and get up early to head up and over Aasgard on Saturday morning when clear which was a smart decision.  We came to find out that they had to do a rescue on Friday AM of some people due to poor weather conditions up on the pass, we do not know the full details. Colchuck lake was exceptional, minimal bugs other than a few mosquitoes but great views, slight wind during the day and minimal people.  The views were incredible!  We camped at one of the last spots on trail for the night not far from a stream to filter water.  The temperatures dropped quite low that evening. Saturday morning we started out to climb up Aasgard Pass.  It was a sunny day with slight wind, a much better option for climbing Saturday than on Friday.  Aasgard is not for the faint of heart!  We each had a minimum of 40 pound packs, and took it slow.  We were passed by day hikers and many who appeared to be ill-equipped.  There is one section in particular on Aasgard that is incredibly dangerous, especially with large packs to cross.  It would not be wise to cross without an ice axe/crampons or yacktraxs.  We saw many ill-equipped people doing so which was disturbing.  The snow is still melting, but and there are plenty of boot tracks to follow, but safety especially with added weight is essential.  Once crossing, you need to boulder up and this too is a sketchy part of Aasgard.  It is imperative to be mindful of your surroundings and those around you.  Day hikers were scrambling up above us and failed to call out a basketball sized rock they kicked down and it almost nailed one of us in our group which could have lead to serious injury.  Please go slow, steady and safely.  It was scary in that section and bring the proper equipment, even if you are just doing a day hike.   After getting to the top of Aasgard we descended through sunny skies down over the frozen upper Enchantments towards Inspiration Lake.  We took a break on the rocks to soak in the views, it was magnificent!  The views do not disappoint and being able to experience the lakes frozen is its own type of beauty!  Once again, we traversed down to Inspiration Lake cutting across the snow field and following foot paths towards the bottom until we reached Perfection Lake.  The trail was easy to follow with foot paths, and we decided to camp at Sprite Lake after crossing a fast moving stream that was easy and safe enough to cross with poles going one-by-one.  From Aasgard onward we did not use any crampons or yacktraxs descending, however it would be a personal preference.  Be cautious for post-holes this time of year with the snow melting. Here we ran into two forest rangers who we talked to about conditions ahead and who checked our permits.  They too crossed the same stream no problem and had spent time digging out toilets on the path and doing minor trail work.  They were incredibly friendly!  Our campsite was great, we have some visitors who came in the form of mountain goat families, minding their own business for the most part!  That evening temperatures dropped really low, but it was clear, hardly any wind and overall a magnificent night. Sunday morning we descended down to Leprechaun Lake and towards Viviane Lake.  Look for cairns, because the trail can be deceiving as it appears to lead you down right around the perimeter of the lake.  If you take that foot path, you will be stuck and have to boulder up 6 ft, which can be hazardous as you can slip and go right into the lake-not a good idea.  If you hike up, you will find cairns that will take you on the trail, which winds you around a narrow trail (be safe!) and eventually onto a large boulder.  This is one of the other top sketchy parts of the hike-take this slow, the snow if still there can make this exceptionally slippery, and there is a large gap between the boulder and the snow.  You can get yourself into a serious situation if you are not smart.  There is a minor snow bridge that is melting and can make for tricky footing.  Once getting down, we kept following the trail till we hit Lake Viviane which is completely thawed and phenomenal!  Wondrous views!!!  You cross the waterfall-there are two logs-check to make sure, one is steady and other moves, you will know which by poking with your pole. From here the trail for the rest of the Enchantments is clear-no snow, just some mud and careful footing as to not roll your ankle.  We descended to Snow Lake which never disappoints, pristine green/blue colored water and the sun shining!  We stopped and ate lunch here and the campsites were half full by the time we reached here around 3pm.  We decided to continue to Nada Lake for the night, as the trail was relatively easy around Snow Lake.  Bring bug spray, the mosquitoes were brutal! We crossed the dam between Upper Snow Lake and Lower Snow Lake which is cold water, and fast moving water, so proceed with cation.  From here, the decent down to Nada Lake is minor rocks and small boulders but great views.  We found a campsite towards the dam on Nada Lake which had a great rock to lay out on and enjoy the views.  It was warm, and pleasant and a nice way to end the day.  Nada Lake and downwards the bugs were intense, so bring bug spray! Monday morning we packed up and headed out down the trail around 9AM and hit some intense heat on the switch backs towards the Snow Lake entrance.  There is a small campsite before you hit the switch backs that is shady and has a great stream to filter water and take a break before the final push down to complete the hike. Overall, it was a great trip and the Enchantments did not disappoint!  My main advice for the next few weeks while the snow is still melting is to be mindful of safety and to be prepared and know your surroundings.  We encountered too many ill-equipped groups of people who did not know what they were getting themselves into on the hike and Aasgard is still dangerous in parts.  Of course, heavy packs versus day packs make a complete difference when navigating.  It does not hurt to check weather, talk with rangers, and look at the trail maps!Two friends and I ran the Enchantments Loop from the Stuart Lake trailhead to the Snow Lakes trailhead starting at 7:20AM.  The initial climb up to Colchuck Lake was relatively easy and uneventful.  We lost the trail for a brief moment when we were so awed by a waterfall that we didn't notice that the trail took a hard left.  Once we were back on track, we made it up to the lake and took a snack break while we admired the view of Dragontail and planned our attack of Aasgard Pass.   We set off around Lake Colchuck and through the large boulder field just before the start of the climb.  There was a little bit of snow to cross at the base of Aasgard, but it was easily manageable without snow gear.  The climb was a lung-buster, but we didn't find it too difficult or technical until we had to cross a large snowfield up near the summit.  We put on our Yaktrax and were able to cross safely.  The benefit of starting a little later in the day was that there were solid tracks through this section and the sun was already on the pass, so there wasn't any ice to deal with.  Others were crossing this section without Yaktrax or micro spikes, but I don't think that was a safe choice.  The end of the snowfield ended with a short scramble up a 4-5 foot boulder.  From this point, there was intermittent snow until we reached the top.  The entire ascent took us 1:42.   The upper enchantments were thoroughly snow covered, and after a brief snack break we "re-yakked" ourselves and set off into the basin.  The weather was almost hot, and we were all in short sleeves.  The trail was easy to follow, as there were a lot of people out and there were clear tracks in the snow.  Regardless, we checked in with our map at each lake to make sure we were on the correct side and that we weren't headed off towards one of the peaks.  The snow was perfect for running with Yaktrax, and we flew through most of the large snowfields.  We ended up below the trail between Inspiration Lake and Perfection Lake, but were able to take of our Yaks and scramble through a small rocky area to get down to the shore of Perfection Lake and meet up with the trail.  We rounded the northern tip of the lake and were able to run almost the whole way to Leprechaun Lake.  There was one stream crossing that looked questionable at the base of Sprite Lake, so we stayed on the north side of the stream and crossed a little further up. We stopped for lunch and deet/sunscreen re-application at Lake Viviane.  After taking lots of photos, we headed towards the shore, only to find that we had followed some tracks in the snow that led to a 6+ foot vertical scramble right on the edge of the lake.  It appeared that others had scaled the ledge, but we weren't all comfortable with the prospect of falling into an alpine lake, so we climbed back up the steep snowfield and went around the rocky section at the southeast corner of the lake.  At the east end of Lake Viviane, we crossed a large stream on some fallen logs.  From there, the descent to Upper Snow Lake was well marked with cairns and easy to follow.  We stopped to refill one hydration pack on the descent, and then sped down to Snow Lakes.   The shore of the upper lake was quick and dry.  At the small dam between the two lakes, we had to take off our shoes and walk the top of the dam.  The water was icy cold but felt good on my tired feet. From there, we descended through the steep boulder field to Nada Lake and then were able to really open our legs up for the last 5.5 miles of descent.  The bulk of the trail from Nada Lake to the Snow Lakes trailhead was clear and easy to run.  From Nada Lake down, it got oppressively hot.  There aren't many easily accessible water sources from that point on, and the two of us who had not refilled our bladders ran out.  I would recommend refilling in the stream up above Snow Lakes where the water is more pristine. All in all, it was a spectacular day.  We finished in 10:15, and could have easily cut off 2-3 hours if we hadn't taken long breaks for food, photos, and to enjoy the scenery.  That said, I don't really think it would be worth trying to cut out those breaks because you need to take some time to really appreciate the majesty of the Enchantments.  Bugs were somewhat annoying, but we applied deet a few times throughout the day and didn't get bitten at all.  We saw lots of mountain goats, including two mothers with their kids.  None of them bothered us, however we kept our distance.  We also saw a few marmots going up Aasgard Pass.  The weather was warm-hot and we only had on long sleeves for the first five minutes of our run.   On a side note, we parked at Snow Lakes and took a shuttle up to the Stuart Lake trailhead (see link for shuttle service).  It was inexpensive and meant that we didn't need to worry about coordinating with anyone after our run.  The Snow Lakes parking area is easily accessible for any car.  The road up to the Stuart Lake trailhead, however, is very steep and rutted, and I would recommend 4wd to get up there.Enough has been written about the Enchantments so that only some minor details need adding. We hiked up to Lake Viviane from the Snow Lake trail head, where it is increasingly difficult to score a parking space. Besides the 6000 feet elevation gain, only a few comments are worth mentioning. Since my last visit two or so years ago, there's been a slide before Nada Lake that complicates the trail. Also, the old water blow hole from Snow Lake to Nada is gone--and I'm wondering when that happened. Finally, water's currently overflowing the outlet dam of Snow, so bring your water crossing shoes. Other than that, the trail from Snow, though still mean-spirited, was more straight-forward than in the past.  The upper basin itself is largely snow- and goat-covered, although there are enough bare spaces for beautiful tent sites. On reaching Viviane, we crossed the outlet over a pile of logs. After that, the trail goes up the hillock on the south side of Viviane, then cuts back down the shore before crossing the isthmus to the north side. Running low on daylight, we camped before crossing, with cocktails and stars.  Day two we did the standard day hike up to Asgaard Pass, which entailed a significant amount of snow travel, and a few stream/lake outlet crossings on snow bridges that are beginning to melt. We looked for the fisher we had seen a few years ago near Inspiration Lake and the Prusik Pass cut off, but saw nothing but snow and larches. The slope from Inspiration to the upper basin is steep enough to require careful steps going up and judicious but optional glissading going down, but after that it's a straight shot to Asgaard and its marmots and goats. On the way back down to Viviane and cocktail hour we took the requisite detour to Prusik Pass, up the hillock above the pass, and down off-trail to (now) snow-covered Gnome Tarn. You can head off-trail scrambling down the rock ridge south and get comfortably back to Viviane and Leprechaun.  We opted to hike out via the Colchuck Trail. It's 2000 feet down in less than a mile, and is not for everyone. The upper section is steep, reasonably well-cairned, and asks for hiking poles. At the upper section, we followed the cairns towards the south (left as you're going down). In a few hundred yards, this requires you to cross a steep snowfield from south to north (shown in photo) for about 50 yards to connect to the next downhill part of the trail. One of our more intrepid hikers took a short glissade down this snowfield, but came scarily close to going over the edge. The rest of us put on microspikes for the crossing, but a trail-runner without microspikes (or poles!) made it across in our tracks afterwards. I should note that when you reach this juncture on the way up, you have the option of crossing where we did, or going up a long steep snowfield, on the north side of the basin. This avoids the 50 yard snowfield crossing, but we heard that a hiker was injured, falling down the steep snowfield, so take care.  The steepest section was immediately after our snowfield crossing. Beyond that there's a stretch of boulder-hopping downhill, followed by a (currently) snow-covered section near the south end of Colchuck, where the trail is hard to find. Then there's the real boulder-hopping section at the south side of Colchuck, placed there by gods who see suffering as character-building. We found the rest of Colchuck to be pretty but buggy, and the next section from Colchuck to the Stuart Lake cut-off to be rooty and tiresome. After that, it's a straight shot to the Colchuck/Stuart trailhead. We worried about how we would hitch a ride back to the Snow Lake Trailhead, but Les from Wenatchee proved to be our car shuttle savior. Thank you Les! And yes, we understand that sane folk backpack up from Colchuck and down via Snow. We accept the implications.We did a 5 day trip in the enchantments over a long weekend (started Thur 6/23).  I wanted to post mostly so people have up to date info on the snow levels, etc.   Day 1.  Set out from the Stuart Lake trail head towards Colchuck Lake.  Trail was fine, it's always a bit more of a climb up to Colchuck than I remember; as it's always eclipsed by my experience going up Asgard and that's what sticks in my memory, but make no mistake, with 5 days of food & supplies on your back the hike up to Colchuck is no slouch.  Trail was in fine condition.  At Colchuck we stopped for lunch and because the forecast called for precip we opted to camp at Colchuck that night rather than go all the way over Asgard Pass, as I've done the last 2 times I've been to this area.  This proved to be a great decision, as right after we set up our tents it began to rain and when you looked up at the pass it was very clear that camping at Colchuck was a good decision.   Day 2.  Headed around the lake and up Asgard Pass.  The trail is easy enough to follow around the boulder field over to the bottom of the pass, there are cairns and they do a pretty good job you just have to watch your step on boulders.  The way up Asgard is to stay left of the big tree / rock area you see when you look at it.  It's a bit of a free for all going up Asgard, but just be aware of where you are and where you're going and you should be good.  I felt like we were following a "trail" most of the way.  One section worth noting is towards the top. you have to cross a small snow field, which was no problem without ice axe/crampons, which I had but didn't use because the wind gusts were REALLY strong and I didn't want to linger.  At the end of the small snow field you have to climb up this rocky face type thing which is not too hard, you just have to be careful.  I would definitely recommend the buddy system.  Nothing too bad though.  The rest of the way over the pass was fine, some snow here and there.  Over the pass, cold, GUSTY and everything was covered in lots of snow.  Nowhere to camp just after the pass and we didn't stick around long enough to look as we were desparately trying to get out of all the wind.  Between a TOPO and the bootpack it's fairly easy to get around in the Enchantment Basin even with all the snow over everything, but you should be very aware of your position on the map and in relation to lakes etc.  No problem getting around, no need for crampons at all really.  We camped at Inspiration Lake, which was about as far away from the pass as we had the energy to get and we also found dry ground (snow free) to set up 4 tents for our group of 7.   Day 3. Woke up after a long cold and windy (40mph gusts) night to a beautiful sunny day with no wind.  FINALLY!  It was a beautiful day in the enchantments.  We geared up and took the group up to Little Annapurna.  We used ice axe/crampons because we began ascending on the east shoulder, and crossed the snowfield to the summit, but you may not **Need** ice axe / crampons if your ascent was on the less steep western approach.  If you were planning to do Dragontail or any of those other peaks you would definitely want ice axe/crampons, and of course the knowledge of how to use the axe.  We stayed another night at Inspiration that night.   Day 4. A few of our group had to walk out and the rest of us did a day hike up to Prusik Pass and the staging area for climbing Prusik Peak, which is a nice fun scramble with a gorgeous view.  Played around on the ridge where Gnome Tarn was and then packed up camp and moved it down to Leprechaun Lake.  There are places to camp that are snow free at Leprechaun, but you may have to look for a while.  Mostly snow covered still.  We had planned to camp at one of the snow lakes that night to make the next day's hike to the car less, but the group wanted to stay in the core for one more night, and it was entirely worth the 12 mile hike out the next day.   Day 5.  Hiked from Leprechaun Lake to the car we had waiting for us at the snow lakes trail head.  The way around Lake Viviane was sketchy.  When you're following the boot path from Leprechaun to Viviane, the path descends to the left and you have Viviane on your left and a knoll on your right and the boot path take you to this like 10 ft face you have to somehow negotiate with a pack on.  We thought this looked really sketchy (if you screwed up you could easily fall into the frigid waters) and decided to go up and over the knoll.  So, if you were going to Viviane from Leprechaun, I would advise you to stay high and to the right once Viviane comes into view on your left.  We did see a boot path heading this way, which helped, and once we got up towards the knoll there were cairns.  I'm almost 100% sure this is the "actual" trail (if there is such a thing) because going down the other side of the knoll we encountered some of the rebar drilled into the granite, which I remember from other (non-snow-covered) trips through here.  I can't tell you exactly how to negotiate the descent on the other side of this knoll, but just be careful and watch each step very carefully.  Remember that you will need to cross Viviane's drainage point on your descent; meaning don't go too far down on the right side as you'll have to ascend back up to the level of Viviane to cross the drainage.  Lose vert if you must to feel safe though - that's the most important part, obviously.  I walked on the snow that looked hollow underneath where there was a big space between the snow and the granite and it was quite stable and I weigh ~150 + pack.  Looks worse than it is, it's very compacted.  Head to the west to find a safe crossing where Viviane drains.  Not a problem here, just a couple of logs.  Be careful on all the open granite going down from here.  Then, continue to descend, for like 5500 ft!  Long slog the only noteworthy thing I want to mention after this is where you cross the spot between upper and lower snow lakes, it had a bit of water running over the top.  Don't step on the logs, they will not support you!  Walk on the concrete, with the water running over your feet.  I have fairly new boots, so my feet stayed dry, but if your boots leak at all they'll get wet.  You have lots more miles so if your boots aren't tight I would suggest doing this crossing in another type of footwear or barefoot so you don't have to hike the rest of the way in wet boots and get blisters.  The only other noteworthy thing I'd like to mention is don't forget to fill up water before or near the snow creek wall (you can't miss it) because after this section it's a dry trail and tends to get quite hot in the afternoon as you descend back into the warm dry Leavenworth air.  When you can see the parking lot don't get too excited, you still have about an hour of hiking switchbacks until you reach your vehicle.   TL; DR: Enchantment basin is totally snow covered from Asgard Pass to Viviane, but there are enough select spots melted out to set up tents on dry land.  Good luck finding the toilets above Leprechaun.  We could not locate a usable toilet between Colchuck and Leprechaun.  Toilets are fine at Colchuck, Leprechaun and I know the ranger said the one at Viviane was clean and usable, although we didn't see it (didn't look).  See above for notes on the way around Viviane, it was a little sketchy.  Water flowing over the section between upper and lower snow lakes, use caution.  Trail is dry between snow creek wall and snow creek trail head.   Another great trip in the Enchantments - truly one of Washington's gems and one of my personal favorite areas!   Oh and goats are mad for your urine in this area if you didn't already know that.  The rangers have changed their tune from "urinate on rocks" (to protect the vegetation) to "urinate into cracks between rocks where the goats cannot access".  The rangers even suggested throwing rocks at goats to keep them away, again this is an evolution in advice since I've been coming to the area.  Apparently they don't want us to be as friendly as we are with the goats and they want to discourage the urine-licking.  I'm all for keeping the goats off our pee, but when you see the little babies the last thing you want to do is throw rocks.  Seriously though, they hover around your tent in the mornings waiting for you to get out and pee, as they know it's the first thing people do when they wake up.  It's kind of ridiculous.   Bugs - we got through relatively unscathed (at least in the basin between Viviane and Asgaard Pass) but we also had cool / wet weather.  I would say that if your forecast includes lots of nice sunshine you should pack lots of bug dope.  Bugs were persistent at snow and nada lakes and would be at Colchuck if it wasn't cool.  DEFINITELY bring plenty of bug dope.   Have fun out there and stay safe!We started from Snow Lakes Trailhead about 8:45am to camp one night at Snow Lake and we found a great spot about 1/2 mile before the climb to Lake Viviane starts. No snow or trail issues getting to Snow Lake at all. After setting up camp, we took a lighter load to explore the core, or really, to see how far we could make it. The trail up to Lake Viviane was 95% clear of any snow, one small (100 yard) section to cross and very easy with no specialized equipment needed. Made it all the way to Lake Viviane to find the lake half full of floating ice. Two of our group had cramp-ons and ice axes and continued all the way to Asgard Pass, but most of us turned back because we did not have any snow hiking gear. Glad we did, the two that went on loved it, but said it was difficult and the core area was mostly all covered with snow.We chose to skip Aasgard and enter and exit at Snow Lake with our Core permit. We did one night at Snow Lake, one night at Viv Lake, and then another night at Nada Lake before leaving. We were going to stay longer in the core and go all the way to Aasgard on day trips, but the weather wasn't looking promising, and a couple of members of our party didn't have snow gear. The hike was really hard, and looking back I wish we would have just sucked it up and went up Aasgard with more equipment. Definitely worth the effort, even if we didn't go really far into the core. Preparation is the name of the game and I wish we had crampons and an ice axe instead of just microspikes and poles. There was six inches of snow Saturday night and we arrived Tuesday morning. It had melted quite a bit but there was definitely enough to effect our decision to keep going. The goats pretty much kept their distance, they only required a few small pebbles to keep them at bay. Bring bug spray!!!!!!!! Overall, the trip was a success!!Recently returned from a 4-day backpacking trip in the Enchantments from Friday (June 17) to Monday (June 20). The original plan was to leave a car at the trailhead to Colchuck Lake and work our way over Aasgard Pass and through the Enchantments, exiting at the Snow Lake trailhead a few days later.  After seeing the forecast, reviewing recent trip reports, and considering the (lack of) experience of our group, we opted to go in and go out from the Snow Lake side.  Ultimately, we felt a little uncomfortable with the current conditions at Aasgard Pass.  That said, we saw plenty of people successfully thru-hiking the entire trail with various states of gear and experience. Starting Friday afternoon from the Snow Lake trailhead, we made it to Upper Snow Lake in about 6 hours with full packs.  There are many downed trees along the way, but all were easy to get over or around.  Rain moved in that night and continued through Saturday morning and even turned to snow Saturday afternoon.  Even though it is Summer, you will need to be prepared for cold temperatures and quickly changing weather conditions.  Low temperatures at nights were upper 30s.   Finally got a break in the weather and made a day trip from Upper Snow Lake to the Core on Sunday (June 19).  The hike from Upper Snow Lake to Lake Viviane took about 2 hours and was almost entirely snow free.  This part of the trail requires you to search for cairns, and is fairly well marked if you know to look for said cairns.  There was a bit of snow just below the Lake Viviane outlet but that will be melted out soon.   We started running into goats at Lake Viviane and picked our way around rock and snow to continue towards Leprechaun Lake.  At the far side of Lake Viviane, the trail climbs a steep snow bank above the lake.  There was an established boot path to follow, but I felt very uncomfortable on it even with microspikes and poles.  I would have absolutely preferred to have an ice axe.  The consequence of slipping on this snow slope was sliding down (with virtually no runout) into the partially melted Lake Viviane.  I am shocked that no one ended up in the lake while we were up there.  Navigating this section also required several scrambles on rock, some of which were very steep. Past Lake Viviane, moving towards Leprechaun Lake, we crossed a very thick snow bridge above the creek flowing down into Lake Viviane.  The trail alternates between snow and boulders up until this point and is definitely slow moving.  Leprechaun Lake is partially melted, as is Sprite Lake, but Perfection Lake was the first mostly frozen lake we made it to.  Past here, the trail is all snow covered.  Following the trail past Perfection Lake, we arrived at the also mostly frozen Inspiration Lake.  The trail/bootpath continues past Inspiration Lake and climbs another steep snowbank above the lake.  Again, I wish I had an ice axe in case I needed to self-arrest to avoid sliding into the lake below.   We made it just a bit further up, enough to get a glimpse of Crystal Lake and turned around to get back to our base camp at Snow Lake by nightfall.  We ended up walking down the same steep snowbank we had climbed earlier above Lake Viviane.  The warm temperatures made for very soft and unstable snow, so this descent was particularly nerve-wracking, but we made it down slowly in our microspikes and poles.  Finally back at the Lake Viviane outlet, we dodged a few curious goats and headed down to Upper Snow Lake for the night.  Between Lake Viviane and Upper Snow Lake, we spotted a few bear tracks (!!).  Hang your food or bring a bear canister.   Packing out the next morning, we ran into some goats at Nada Lake, which surprised me.  Expect goats everywhere.  The bugs were also out at Nada Lake (and Snow Lakes) but not as bad as later in the summer. TL;DR - The Core was still mostly snow-covered which made me wish I had brought my ice axe.  We managed to get around ok with microspikes and trekking poles, but we talked to other hikers that had neither (not recommended!).  Be safe up there, and be prepared with gear and expertise.  There are several dangerous spots right now and I am very surprised no one has gotten seriously injured (that I know of).My husband and I returned last night from a 4 day/3 night trip to the Enchantments. We started out on Wednesday, June 8 by dropping a car at the Snow Lake TH and then heading to the Lake Stewart TH to begin our adventure.  Day 1: the trail to Colchuck is in pretty good shape. It is hot, dry and VERY buggy. There are several smallish trees down that are at the perfect height to be an annoyance to anyone carrying a 40+lb pack. We passed several parties day hiking to the lake, and several other groups staying at campsites. We opted to stay at the campsite closest to Aasgard so that we could get an early start up the next morning. We encountered snow about a quarter of a mile before the campsite. The campsite itself was covered by a downed tree, but we broke off enough branches to set up a small tent.  Day 2: we started up Aasgard at around 7am. The snow was iced over and easily traveled on. We were able to follow the cairns up the rock field, and really only had to go up/across two snow fields. There are tons of boot paths going every which way up there, so please make sure you know where you are going, and stay to the LEFT! There are several paths that actually go straight up through the snow on the left, but we felt a little better about staying on the rocks, so we did. The snow fields that we had to cross definitely required spikes, and one I wish that I would have taken my ice ax off my pack for. After what seemed like forever, we  thankfully reached the top. 30 minutes later, horrible weather blew in. It started snowing and hailing so bad, we could barely see 20 feet in front of our faces. We headed in the general direction of Inspiration Lake, and during a break in the weather set up camp above the lake. The crappy weather continued all night long, with winds pushing the tent within about 6 inches of my husband's face several times throughout the night.  Day 3: we woke up to a gorgeous sunrise and were so excited thinking that the weather was clearing! We rushed to get our day pack ready to go, but by the time that was done, the entire bowl was socked in. So we packed up our tent and started down to Inspiration Lake. It started snowing again, and we starting getting grumbly. We headed past Perfection Lake, ran into a runner who told us that the weather was supposed to clear, and miraculously it did 30 mins later! We set up camp above Lake Vivian, and went to explore some. We encountered a lot of goats today, but the only ones that were interested in us were the ones around Vivian. After exploring for a couple of hours, we returned to camp for dinner. About an hour later, it started snowing and hailing again, which continued until about 1am. We only saw the one trail runner, and three other groups all day long.  Day 4: exhausted and cold, we decided to head out a day early. The wind was super harsh while we were packing up camp. Our first challenge after setting out was the crossing at the Lake Vivian outlet. The water was flowing very quickly and the logs were iced over. I ended up crawling across because my legs weren't working yet :) The trail down to Snow Lakes was very well marked. From Snow Lake down to the trailhead was killer on my knees, but no problems on the trail. There are few trees down across the trail, but they are easy to get around. The washout is also easy to get across right now. As more and more people go across it though, there might need to be a more permanent fix. There were tons of flowers out on the trail down. Once we got to the parking lot, it was full and cars were overflowing onto the road. Also, at the Lake Stewart parking lot, cars were parked down the road at least a half mile. Insane.  A few notes: There are no toilets available after you leave Colchuck until you get to Snow Lake. They are all still under snow. Please know how to handle this situation. We saw a ton of toilet paper, wet wipes and other products out there. We also saw where someone had pooped in the snow and just let it. Someone else had used a blue bag for waste, and left the bag all tied up. We also saw several places that people had had camp fires in the core, as well as a couple of dogs.Through-hiked The Enchantments yesterday in what were close to perfect conditions (other than the heat at the end of the day) in 12 hours and 20 minutes, which included a fairly long lunch and swim break at Lake Viviane, another 2 food breaks at the top of Aasgard and at Nada Lake, stopping to chat with just about everyone we saw, and stopping a LOT to take photos!   Admittedly, we've been training and feel in pretty good shape, and travelled pretty light, which helped our pace. We left the Stuart Lake Trailhead at 4 am got to the base of Aasgard at 6:45.  As other reports note, the route to Colchuck is free and clear now of any snow, as is the lake area, and so getting around the lake is just the normal finding your way through the trail and side paths on the west side of the lake.  We started up Aasgard at 7:00 - still 90% snow.  Thanks to the 2 guys ahead of us already at the "tree island" who made some fresh steps.  We had axes, spikes and crampons, but didn't use them - only gaiters and poles.  The snow was the perfect consistency - not too hard, not too soft, and no sun yet, so it was a personal record for getting up Aasgard (hit the top just before 8:30), with fresh legs, light packs, and perfect snow helping.  The sun coming up and reflecting off of Dragontail and Colchuck were stunning, and there was even a nice breeze.  Never thought I'd say going up Aasgard was "fun", but it was today!  I'll take this over no-snow Aasgard any time. Hitting the pass and walking into the Upper Enchantments and Isolation and Tranquil Lakes was an experience that is hard to put into words.  I don't think you can overstate the beauty of this special place, and hyperbole isn't possible.  We've been to a lot of beautiful places, and I grew up camping in The Enchantments as a kid (pre-permit days in the summer, for nights on end), but what we saw today was a different world, and truly stunning.  With the snow on the mountains, the lakes just starting to melt, the mountain goats wandering through, and the larches and wildflowers coming out.....there's just nothing like it that we've ever seen.   Fall is the one time I haven't been (when the larches turn), but I don't know if I can imagine this area possibly being any more beautiful than it is now.   Walking through the Enchantments Lakes was wonderful.  The trail is easy to follow (had the GPS to keep us honest, but only really needed a couple of times - you can't really get lost up there), and we didn't see a human until we got past Inspiration Lake.  Saw plenty of mountain goats, marmots and even a rabbit as we walked on a combination of packed snow and meadow.  It's melting fast up there, and it can be a little dicey right around the lakes where it's melting (rocks and trees are coming through) and  creating holes, but nothing too treacherous.  We only saw two small groups camping in the Core and stopped to chat with them, hard to contain our envy at their fortune in getting permits to camp.  Mid-morning is a great time to be up here, with the sky a vivid blue, the Enchantment Peaks carving the sky in their jagged glory.  We ran into two guys through-climbing the other direction at Inspiration Lake who were planning on going up to Little Annapurna, but other than that, we saw very few hikers in the Core.   Lake Vivianne turned out to be a great place to stop for lunch at 11:00 and an ice-cold, makes your heart seem to stop, swim.  The flies already up there are a BIG annoyance, maybe unbearable if you're camping?  Lots of mosquitoes buzzing around too - can't imagine what it will be like in July and August!  Most of the snow is gone on the big rocks between Vivianne and Upper Snow Lakes.  Lots of cairns to mark the way, and it was here that we started meeting a lot of people coming up from Snow.  Most were camping there and coming up into the Enchantments for day hikes.  There is a LOT of water running down from the Enchantments into Snow, so some water, mud and rocks to pick through, but overall kind of a cool part of the hike (although we seemed to be having more fun than people coming up).  At this point, the afternoon sun was starting to bake everything.   As for Snow and Nada Lakes, the snow is almost all gone at Upper Snow - a few patches here and there.  I think route finding without the snow is more difficult, with lots of paths going here and there to camp spots and look out points.  We saw several camp sites at Snow, with people swimming, fishing and napping - still seemed pretty quiet and peaceful, though.  The lake is a beautiful green now with all the snow and glacier runoff.  The final 9 miles out was more difficult than going up.  It's hot, a bit monotonous once you pass Snow, and the legs and feet really start to feel the work you've already done earlier.  We stopped to chat with just about everyone coming up, asking where they were camping, and literally everyone wanted to know about Aasgard Pass.  That has to be about the most infamous stretch of hiking/climbing around!  When we hit the Snow Creek lot at 4:20, and in a stroke of luck, another group was coming out from camping and we were able to get a ride back up to our car at the Stuart Lake trailhead  while a couple of their group cooled off in Icicle Creek (thanks Ryan and Chris!).   Overall, an incredible experience through-hiking The Enchantments.  I think these types of conditions are optimal for this endeavor.  Starting early certainly helped and with the weather we were able to keep packs light.  4 liters of water/drinks each (got one extra liter from the creek later),  easy to pack & eat protein and cars), minimal gear (ice axes stayed hitched the whole time, but you never know), and none of our extra clothes were used.  We did wear mountaineering boots to account for all conditions encountered.  I do think this route is the best way to do a through-hike.  You do gain less elevation versus going the other way, and it's nice to descend the Enchantments from Upper to Lower, walking through while you still have some energy :-).  Still have mixed feelings on their being so few permits issued, but I have to admit, the fact there were so few people up there made it a much more enjoyable and special experience.Headed out on the 31st to camp at Nada Lake. Didn't get there until a little after dark. Minus the big washout that cut through 3 switchbacks, the trail was pretty clear. Bugs weren't too bad on the trail either.  The Nada Lake campsite had bugs--setting up at night didn't help, as the insects were attracted to light. The trail to Upper Snow Lakes was pretty clear as well. We set up camp by the lake's shore, took our time and started heading out to Lake Viviane after lunch. Many parts of the trail were covered in snow, and there were a couple of times we had trouble locating it. I'd recommend treading carefully here, choosing where to step as the snow over uneven terrain, rocks and fallen trees has thinned out significantly, and postholing into crevices and slipping on logs could cause an unfortunate scenario. By the time we thought we were a quarter mile near Lake Viviane, we ran into a group of hikers who told us we were still half way there. Given the trail conditions and the possibility of having to navigate in the dark, we decided it was best to turn around and head back to camp. While the forecast for Leavenworth was cloudy, howling winds brought some rain with it. Woke up the next day to some fog which eventually cleared later on in the morning.Had a permit for Snow Lakes, so we hiked up to Upper Snow Lake on day 1 and set up camp there. A few miles in there is a fairly major trail wash out as others have noted, but it is easily passable and well marked with cairns. The trail is basically snow free until the top of upper Snow Lake where it becomes patchy (but still passable). Some bugs around Snow Lakes but nothing terrible. Took us around nine hours to get up there but we were taking our time along the way.Day 2 we took a day hike into the Core Enchantments. From Upper Snow Lake to Lake Viviane, the trail begins to have more patchy with lots of "rotten" spots. It is passable without additional gear, although ice axes and microspikes were helpful at times. Until the trail completely melts out, the rotten snow will probably just keep getting more dangerous in spots. Once you reach Vivianne, the snow completely covers the trail in most places. Ice axes were not required but very, very helpful in this area and into the entire Core Zone. We went as far as Lake Perfection (turning back only due to time constraints and fatigue not conditions), following the clear boot track through the soft snow. Some parties had snowshoes but we were able to make it as far as we did without them. We saw quite a few mountain goats around Viviane but they were not aggressive as earlier trip reports noted. Trip from Upper Snow Lake to Lake Perfection took us about 7 hours but we really took our time and explored around a bit up towards Pursik Pass. Day 3 we packed up camp early and make it back to the trailhead before 11am (about 4 hours). All in all very enjoyable trip. First time in the Enchantments did not disappoint!Stuart Lake --> Snow Lake, 19 miles in 12 hours car to car with minimal stopping (2 fit gals). We underestimated Aasgard Pass but still successfully climbed sharing a single set of Yak Traks and hiking poles--one trak and one pole for each of us--which made it super dicey on the upper, steeper areas of the pass. Boot pack helpful, but shallow, steep and very slippery in areas. Micro spikes and poles/and or ice axe still recommended. (Probably don't attempt without prior spring mountaineering/ orienteering experience).  All of the middle and upper lakes still covered in snow, but very very beautiful. Some of the goats were aggressive, but no other issues. In general, 70% of the trail still has a lot of snow and down trees. Snow clears out descending past Snow Lake. Lots of wildflowers at the end.I previously submitted a report for my pre-permit visit at the beginning of April, and now several weeks later for my trip May 29 - June 3rd (Sun-Fri). 1 - Ticks.  I didn't think it would be as much a problem as all the reports have claimed, or I thought it would be mostly in the lower areas, Nada, Snow lakes, etc, but over my 6 days I found 5 ticks!  Luckily never on my body, but man they are a creepy sight to see crawling up your food bag or tent... I even found one on the summit of Little Annapurna in the snow... I think the species were all male Pacific Coast ticks, based on the pattern (Photo) 2 - Snowshoes. I think my trip was officially the end of the snow-shoe usefulness period.  The majority of people running around the core did not have snow-shoes (as indeed it was mainly not needed), but it totally depends on where you are going and what you plan to do.  Just hiking through the main trail or camping?  No prob.  I took shorties/female(narrow) MSR ascents and I found them extremely useful on the slushy snow going up McClellan and Annapurna.  Crampons would serve if it's early morn, but given the high temps this week/weekend it's unlikely to be firm even for sunrise ascents.  It also snowed 6-8 inches memorial day weekend, so there was a stupid slidey layer on top of compact. 3 - Goats.  I'd definitely say they were more aggressive than I've seen before. Maybe it's a spring/mating thing, but several would not leave my camp alone for hours.. increasingly trying to get closer and closer and acting standoff-ish.  Males were semi-charging each other.  I wouldn't say it ever felt dangerous, but you have to keep an eye on them when they start to get too close. 4 - Dogs, no-permits, and loud people.  I guess I'll continue to be 'that guy' on WTA trip reports that mentions or discusses the problems associated with these things.. but each outing I'm confronted by further examples of mis-behavior, in my face. At the Snow Lakes trailhead I ran into a dude about to head up, who had a dog with him.  I politely mentioned 'Did you know dogs are prohibited the enchantments?'  He clearly knew, but said something about 'oh, well I'm just going up a different side trail with some friends, not the main trail', as if that matters.   Memorial day weekend was also super packed up there with overnight people, several of which admitted they didn't have a permit when asked where they were headed/which zone(permit) did they get.  Also, for some reason every other person who reaches Vivian or any higher hill in the core seems to feel the need to Scream Out in success.  I get it, it's very exciting and fulfilling, but really?  You can tell it's typically 1st timers/new hikers, but maybe people should take a moment to think about others up around you (that you probably can't see).   5 - Snow levels and frozen lakes - Melting out quick, as of June 3rd Vivian/Temple/Leprechaun/Perfection and Inspiration were all at pot-hole/icy-aqua pool level melt-out.  Another 10-14 days they'll probably be about 1/3-1/2 melted (there were still some pockets big enough to fish already).  There was also really good fishing at the inlet of upper snow lake by the log bridge(s).We hiked up and spent several nights at the Snow Lakes. The weather was cold, low 23F and high 45F. We were well prepared and were able to enjoy the area regardless. There were some patches of snow on the way up, but nothing warranting special equipment. We hiked up to the core zone and had lunch at Lake Vivian one day. There were one or two small snowfields to cross that can be done without safety equipment. Going past Lake Vivian is a challenge and not safe without crampons or an ice ax.Our group started from the Snow Lake Trail-head Friday (5/20) morning. Our goal was to hike up to Snow Lake day 1 and camp, day 2 do a day hike up to Lake Viviane and back to camp and hike out day 3. In actuality, we ended up hiking up to Snow Lake day one, getting snowed and sleeted on in the night and rained on in the morning as we ate our breakfast. After a quick team discussion we opted to do a short hike to the far end of Snow Lake and head back down rather than spend the day hiding in our tents reading. Other concerns were that the section from Snow Lake up to Lake Viviane would include slick rock with a sheen of sleet and water, perhaps requiring greater traction assist than we had prepared for. So, Safety first. On the hike out around Snow Lake we encountered a large group which had camped near Vivian and had apparently had 8 inches of snow over the night. They had proper technical safety gear.  At the Snow Lake elevation post holing through the quickly melting accumulated snow was a constant danger. It seemed that the accumulated snow began on the East facing slope up to the core enchantments at about 5600 feet. From previous reports, snow condition reports etc, we brought Snowshoes and light trail crampons. These proved unnecessary however we never hiked up above Snow Lake where the snow began in earnest. Previous reports suggested a large section of switchbacks had been washed out by a mudslide. There was indeed a mudslide, however the switchbacks recommence upon crossing the mudslide and it was only a minor obstacle. Otherwise the trail was more or less fine. There were a large number of trees down in sections. Also, Ticks... Enough that 3 of our 8 Member team found ticks crawling on them and one was bitten.We managed to snag the last available core enchantments permit for 2016 a few weeks ago. Knowing it was a very early season hike we made sure to pack layers and snowshoes for the night we hoped to spend in the core.  Since our entry date fell on a Wednesday many of our 6 person group had to work part of the day so we didn't arrive in Leavenworth until almost 5 o'clock. We decided to cheers our trip since we weren't hiking too far to our first campsite. We enjoyed some pints at icicle brewing (get the dirtyface amber, it's awesome) and hit the trailhead at 6:00. The first mile is a steep switchback climb among the standing snags of an old ponderosa forest. Along the way the meadows are awash in spring color with more species of wildflowers in bloom than I could count or name. There's about 7 blowdowns between the TH and first campsite, but the majority are just step-overs.  The fire that took out the trees at least gave hikers a great view of the Icicle Creek valley to the East and West. With the sun setting as we climbed we expected it to get chilly fast, but it stayed warm throughout the night.We reached the first campground around 7:30. We took advantage of the opportunity to light a fire to help keep some of the mosquitoes away. The campsite is close to the creek and they were out in force that night. We set out from the first camp which we've named Cedarside Camp (we all felt like camps should have names for clatiry) about 9:30 the next morning. The large rock slide mentioned in previous trip reports occurs a short way after the falls marked on the green trails map. The slide obliterated part of the trail and tossed bedside-table sized boulders across other parts. Fortunately the area of trail that was actually gouged out is only about 15-20ft wide, but the crossing is loose dust for a bit, so go slow and support your hiking mates. After crossing the slide you'll have to skirt its edge on the switchbacks a bit and clamber over the boulders across the trail. Bright yellow glacier lillies coated the trail as we scrambled though, which made for nice viewing. After the slide the trail is almost completely clear to the bridge over snow creek. Campfires are not allowed past this bridge. Once in the woods on the other side there are 6-7 stepovers in the mile to Nada Lake. The trail along Nada is clear and the campsites looked really tempting, but we wanted to hit upper snow that day so we kept moving after a pause for lunch, waterfall viewing, and a little fishing. We hit some weather climbing the ridge between Nada and Snow. It was the typical early season stuff, blowing small pellets of snow in a moderate wind. It was light enough to not be stressful, but challenging enough that we thoroughly appreciated getting into the trees at the ridge crest. Once we arrived at the rock dam/bridge between lower and upper snow lakes it was sunny and beautiful. However the snow around the East and South edges of the lake hadn't completely melted yet and the trail vanished after the last campsite on the lake's east side. There were clear tracks, but be careful following them as it looks like many are from when the snow was firmer and postholing wouldn't plunge you 5ft between deadwood into a creek. The campsite (Snowpoint Camp) at the point on the south end of the lake was clear of snow, so we camped there and went to bed early, hoping to hit the basin early the next morning before the snow turned to mush. The night was absolutely frigid which encouraged a tick to snuggle into our tent. The offending bloodsucker came off easily, so it was either full or hadn't attached yet. Since the weather from the day before had blown out of the core enchantments we decided to keep camp at Snow Lake and just day hike into the basin. We hit the trail at about 6:15 with a sleeping bag, stove, snowshoes, extra food, and medical supplies in packs in case we got stuck. The trail vanished again under snow after the next bridge over snow creek, and again the footsteps were unreliable. One set led us over a snow bridge onto an island in the middle of the creek and then over another snow bridge, both of which looked close to collapse on the way back. Climbing the ridge out of the Snow Lake basin and into the core enchantments  what I imagine climbing The Wall in Game of Thrones would be like, steep and unclear in many places.The trail is difficult to distinguish from goat tracks and about 2/3 of the way up we got waaay north of the trail and onto a steep snow field that ended in a 30ft drop. That's when we ran into the goats. A herd of four animals came across the cliff above us. They had an adorable kid with them and split their time between majestically gazing into the distance, and munching on the new growth of heather. However things went from beautiful to scary fast when the billy decided he didn't like the humans oogling his herd. The goats kept coming closer and adopting more more aggressive postures as they did so. Trying to respect their space we started to head back to where we'd last seen the trail, but the billy was not happy about it. He charged down the snowfield, head lowered, with one of the nannies and the kid following quickly. It was only once our whole group started shouting, throwing sticks/rocks, and waving our arms that the goats backed off. We all scurried away thankful we hadn't been run off the cliff or stabbed. We found the trail again by hugging close to the larger southernmost stream and looking for cairns. Right as we found it another group started heading up the way we had gone and although we tried to warn them about the difficulty of the terrain and the displeasure of the goats they went that way anyway. One member of their group dismissed our warnings saying the goats just wanted our pee and that they'd "take it right out of the tap" if they could. Don't be that guy, the goats need salt and they'll get it however they can, and never dismiss wild animals as tame. We encountered the goats several more times on the way up and the herd grew as another nanny and kid showed up. Eventually we found that standing our ground, even charging the goats, and shouting a deep, loud, boo! would spook them off if they got too close or uppity. Eventually the herd decided to follow the group of hikers from before who'd gotten ahead of us, so we got some peace as we picked our way up the ridge. The view at the top was worth the whole trek. We crested the ridge right at the outlet of Temple lake and ate lunch at about 11:00. The lakes are still frozen and mostly covered in snow, but pale blue eyes of ice stare out at you from the fringes. Careful travelling along the edge of the lakes as it's really unclear where the lake edge ends and the water starts. The ice is not thick. We didn't need our snowshoes to travel in the core, but it was still relatively early in the day. If you're hiking through and are up there after noon you'll probably need them. After lunch and snapping a few pictures from the pinnacle between Temple Lake and Lake Viviane we decided to head back down to camp. The peek into the core enchantments with rolling hills of snow, budding larches, McClellan Peak shimmering, and blue holes in Leprechaun Lake was painfully tantalizing, but the snow was turning to sugar, and as the sun came out we knew it was going to get dangerous quickly. We descended the ridge, sticking to the trail this time, and didn't encounter any goats. The snow was quickly getting sloppy and there were a couple sketchy traverses and glissades as we headed down. We lost the trail again in a couple spots, but made good time by keeping the creek near on our right. We got back to camp around 2:30 that afternoon and had nice evening's relaxing, fishing, watching the lake's resident osprey, and recanting our ungulate encounters. We even saw a river otter fishing in Upper Snow, which is 5420ft up with mountains on all sides! Overnight we all heard the rain coming down. At least that's what we thought. When we woke up the next morning the rainflies of our tents were sagging onto the body, heavy with sodden powder. The snow had moved in overnight and dumped about an inch and a half which quickly started to melt once the sun rose. We had planned to camp another night at Nada lake on the way out, but with soaked gear and and a thick ceiling of clouds we decided to make the whole 9ish miles out that day. We ate a cold breakfast in the tent and booked it down valley to get hot schnitzel and cold beer at the Baren Haus in town. It took us about four and a half hours to get from the end of Upper Snow to the trail head. We encountered a lot of people headed for through hikes, backpacks, and day hikes to the lower lakes on the way down. The season has really begun.    Text by Patrick, Photos by KellyLosing the permit lottery, meant we were looking for a small early season Enchantments hit with a day hike to Nada Lake. Left the Snow Lakes trail head about 8:30. Parking lot pretty clear and never filled up. Early part of hike was brilliant with wildflowers at their peak. So much spring color! Our hike was cut a bit short at the scree field about a mile below the lake. A recent slide has taken out a whole section of switchbacks. To navigate you have to cross a narrow loose dirt gully and scramble up a loose rock slope, keeping sight of the cairns. The pictures do not fully capture the slide, but hopefully provide a bit more description. With rain looming we did not feel confident the trail conditions would hold guaranteeing safe crossing on the way the back, and instead turned around. Happily making it back to the car as the first raindrops fell.I took the Snow Lakes TH up to the core for two nights, April 11-13th. The current 'snowshoe-mandatory' level sits just below the footbridge below Nada Lake (about 2.5-3 mi in). There were a lot of blowdowns throughout the trail, roughly 30-40.  Most are small 'step-overs', with a couple you have to climb around or hug-pass, but nothing major.  It was clearly a rough winter, and no trail maintenance has been done so far.  Even right by the trailhead there are downed trees blocking the path. I passed only one group (4 from PDX) on my way in (they were heading out after 2 nights and had made it to Vivian).   Had hopes to reach the lower core on day 1, my legs started to fail me by Nada, but I managed to push on to Snow Lakes for camp on night one.   A ski skinner passed my tent in the morning on the way up, but I didn't see a soul for the rest of the trip. Day 2, I took a direct line up to the core on the right, rather than the main trail, which dropped me up above Temple lake and below Prusik where I made camp.  Spent the rest of the time running around lower core, got up to around Sprite. As with any early season/late winter trip these elevations and conditions should only be attempted with proper knowledge, preparation, and gear, axe/crampons/snowshoes were all mandatory on my outing.  Depending on the day temps and sun exposure, the snow consistency varies greatly from concrete/ice to several feet of pure mush. Since they decided to extend the permit season to May 15 this year (didn't win one either), you might try to get out there in the next few weeks, just be prepared.   A lot more snow than last year, will probably be a big concern for early season visitors.   There was a goat leg on the trail, below Nada.  Looked kinda old/freeze-dried.  Wonder if he died from 'winter' or something got him? Never seen a big game predator in the enchantments before. Oh yea, and I lost a green Arcteryx Atom jacket and a green Nalgene bottle on the way down... probably just below Nada, I think it jumped ship when I took a wee tumble.  If you find it please let me know! :) Nothing better than having the whole enchantments to yourself for a couple nights!So most of my photos are corrupted (no detailed writeup - who wants a blog post with no photos?!) but I do have a few that survived from Dragontail and Colchuck Lake. Here's a quick report on trail conditions since I everyone seems curious about the Enchantments this time of year! Snow Lake trail: Snow started around 3000ft/2 miles in (just past Snow Creek Wall). No real trail to follow besides a few skin tracks. Icy in the morning, very soft in the afternoon. The sun warmed up the slopes beyond Nada Lake and Snow Lake very quickly. The lakes are melting out pretty quickly too, they were too soft for us to skin across so we had to skirt them. The slopes from Snow up to Viviane were brutal in the early afternoon, slippery and steep with some bushwacking and some scrambling and there isn't really any gear that makes it better. Builds character though, right? I'm convinced there's an easier route to take than what we did. Also, tick season has begun, we found a few of them by Snow Lake. Plenty of downed trees and rivers that will be tough to cross once the snow bridges collapse. Upper Basin: The lakes in the upper basin are all still totally frozen. Tons of snow up there, everything is skinnable. Gorgeous views, rolling hills, and lots of bunny hills for newbie skiiers like me. The photo I miss the most is of Prussik, of course. We passed on McClellan and Little Annapurna in favor of Dragontail, which is mostly a walk up right now. Steep snow, crampons necessary in the morning but good boots would suffice in the afternoon (though watch avvy conditions). Ice axe mandatory. Some of the upper rocks are melting out, so expect lots of boulder wells/air pockets and be careful if you glissade :) Views are incredible, and it would be a sweet ski if you want to take them up there. We were lazy. The upper half of Aasgard (climber's right especially) was frozen solid on our way down, tough skiing (I gave up and traded them for crampons) but the bottom and much of climber's left was nice and soft and great for skiing. Colchuck Lake was still frozen enough to skin across, but it won't be that way for long, a few people in boots allegedly punched through the surface. Colchuck Glacier looked like it was in great shape with plenty of snow cover as well, we saw two parties playing around there. Both that and Aasgard are in prime condition for a walk up with crampons. Maybe even easier than summer conditions, assuming you're comfortable with crampons and an ice axe. The trail down from Colchuck was in great shape. Densely packed from foot traffic and easy to follow, it was the polar opposite of the Snow Lakes trail. A few downed trees but nothing bad, and the man made bridges are mostly melted out so those make crossing easy. The road is still gated 3.5 miles from the Colchuck trailhead. Snow starts 1.5-2 miles from the Colchuck trailhead, but again, enough foot traffic that it's not too terrible to walk through. There's still a few feet of snow at the trailhead, so unless they clear it or we get another heat wave, it'll be a while before the road opens again. Did I miss anything?!Hiked to/from Asgard Pass from Snow lakes TH over Sat/Sun. Snow showers on Saturday extended down to Snow Lakes. 1/8 inch of snow settled on the ground across much of the Enchantments Plateau. Many clear patches remaining so no need to camp on snow and nowhere did the snow impede our hike, even in trail shoes, but several people we met claimed that the ascent from Colchuck Lake to Asgard Pass was icy.READ IF THIS IS YOUR FIRST TIME HIKING ENCHANTMENTS AND YOU ARE STARTING IN THE DARK (ie 6 AM):     The turn off for Colchuck is easy to miss and all four of us in our party missed it.  We ended up hiking Stuart because of this and subsequently had a very different day of hiking than expected.  The sign is way above sight level and blends in with the trees because..... it's made out of wood and not painted :).  Since that weekend I've heard of a few other people missing the turn off. I wish the description for enchantments would add this piece of information in it - taken from Colchuck hike description:"Three quarters of a mile later, the trail flattens out and drops a little before reaching a trail junction. Straight ahead the path to Stuart Lake rolls out, while the Colchuck Lake Trail #1599.1 breaks off to the left. Follow the trail to the left - http://www.wta.org/go-hiking/hikes/colchuck-lake)" I've since spoken with several people who have finished the Enchantments trail, a couple of them several times and every single person knew of a group who had also missed the sign or they missed the sign themselves.Hiked in Friday night at 10pm from the Stuart Lake Trailhead.Made it to Colchuck aroung 1am and camped there. This was a genius way to save time and wake up in the mountains. Not to mention the parking lot was nearly full that night already. Made it up Aasgard pass, weather was chilly but clear until we reached the top and it started to snow and hard bitter winds swept through. Snow was accumulating quickly. Hiking past all the lakes until we reached Viviane, the fog was rolling in and out constantly.When we finally reached Viviane it all cleared up and the warm sun broke out of the gray skies!Incredible sunset and sunrise. Woke up to just a tiny bit of snow on our tent. Hiked out towards Snow Lake Sunday morning and it stayed comfortable and clear. Such a beautiful weekend. We hit it just right. Didn't start pouring until we hit the road. I was amazed to see how low Upper Snow lake was. Quite astonishing. The dam where the trail goes across the lake was underwater in May and is now bone try. Crazy!This place is stunning and magical as always. It hurts to walk today but it's always worth it:)My husband dropped off my sister-in-law and I at the Stuart Lake Trailhead just before 7 am. So many cars in the parking lot. Used flashlight about 20 minutes before it got light enough to go without.  Fair amount of campers around Colchuck Lake, which was like glass reflecting the peaks and the color was just amazing. About a mile to get around the lake to start up the pass. Got off the trail for a bit and it was the first of many, many times trying to figure out where the trail was. It's all about the cairns. Cairns, cairns, and more cairns.Took Aasgard Pass nice and easy, but even so about 2/3 of the way up my legs were saying they were done and I was saying, "This is way farther up than it looks from the lake!" Lots of nice backpackers playing leap frog with us on the way up.Got to the top of the pass after 11:30 with enough signal to send a text to my husband.The views all along the Enchantments were beautiful. It was like a (mini and sober) Oktoberfest on top of the mountain with all the backpackers! The larches had mostly packed up and gone home, but the fall colors were still beautiful.I was surprised at the steepness of the descent heading to Snow Lakes. I had been warned it would be rough on the feet and knees, but I guess you don't know till you know.Saw a couple groups of goats and a ptarmigan. The last 8 miles or so was really quiet: only a couple sets of hikers. It was also incredibly long and even jogging anytime the trail was smooth (probably a couple miles total) we didn't reach the Snow Lakes trailhead until after 6:30 pm with the last of daylight.The reputation is well-deserved! I can't wait to try for an overnight permit in the summer. We started out at the Stuart Lake trailhead late Friday night--drove up from Seattle after work, and got in about 8 or 830. The parking lot was jam packed since it was the first weekend after permit season ended and it was gorgeous weather, so we figured all the campsites at Colchuck would be full and planned on camping out somewhere ahead of the lake. Hiked up for a few hours in the dark  with headlamps and the stars were beautiful! We stopped for the night about a mile and a half before the lake, at a little clearing just next to the trail. The next morning we had breakfast at Colchuck, and on the way to the pass we ran into a ranger who said he counted over 100 groups heading up the pass into the core enchantments between Thursday and Friday before 10 am. Jeez! It really was busy, almost like going to a theme park. That's an exaggeration, but it's honest to say that there weren't any views totally free of other people. There must have been 200-300 people around between the trailhead and Prusik.  One group had pitched a giant American flag next to their tents, which seemed in poor taste to me. Come on guys. Please remember that everyone is there to see uninterrupted wilderness, not nationalism and bravado. It's not as bad as trashing the place with beer cans, but it's on the same spectrum.  Made it up Aasgard by noon or so the next day--I really wished I had trained more for that--and ate a cold and windy lunch at the top. No snow or ice anywhere really, except for some much-shrunken glaciers up in the crags. No spikes necessary all weekend. We camped in a meadow next to Perfection Lake (aptly named), and had dinner up on Prusik Pass. Incredible view of Shield Lake, Prusik Peak, Perfection Lake, Little Annapurna, MacClellan and more. We watched two climbers summit Prusik, but by their headlights it looked like they didn't make it down before dark. Sunday we went all the way back to the Stuart Lake trailhead, but got separated in the fog coming down Aasgard. With low visibility, those cairns are really hard to spot against the scree field, and I wandered astray of the trail a couple times. At one point I started sliding down and tore a little hole in my rain coat. It would have been a real problem if I hadn't been heading home that night.  Im really not sure if my poles made it easier or harder, but it took me about 1.5-2 hours to come down. There were 5 or 10 really intense people in tiny running shorts bounding up the pass in the 40 degree fog as I stumbled down. I guess it's a good spot to train for a trail running marathon in Colorado or something.  Down under 8000 ft, the fog turned into pouring rain that didn't stop all day. Despite rain coat and rain pants, I was totally soaked by the end of the day (especially with that little hole I ripped into my elbow). Even with a pack cover, my sleeping bag and other stuff inside my backpack got wet. Thank god I didn't have to shiver inside a wet bag on the trail that night. The only thing that stayed dry was my feet! The goretex boots held their own.  I missed the trail turn off at the bottom, and ended up down on the beach at Colchuck, which might have actually been easier than traversing that whole big boulder field. Still a few big ones on the beach, but nothing really compared to that quarter mile of them on the trail. We saw a few goats, and one very close to the trail, as we'd been warned about by Rangers and trip reports. But others told me it was way fewer than normal, so I guess they must have been scared away by all the hikers. That pass is really sticking with me, and I can't wait to try it again when I'm in better shape! We stopped at Zekes on the way back home for some grease and salt. Really hit the spot!Did a two-day thru-hike of the Enchantments. I had planned to stay longer, but a few things went wrong, so I decided to push myself physically instead. I went from the Lake Stuart trailhead to Colchuck Lake. No problems here, except that my phone, which I use as camera and book, broke. But why should you care? Next, up Aasgard Pass (officially Colchuck Pass). This stretch of less than a mile, going from Colchuck Lake at 5570 ft to 7750 ft, was hard and tricky for me. At first it was just steep, but later, close to the waterfall on your right, it started getting quite icy. I had trekking poles and gloves, and both helped. I don't know if I would have liked crampons -- the ice was only in patches on boulders I needed to climb up. Maybe some microspikes? I made it up in about 2.5 hours, but with the weather changing, decided I wouldn't go down that way. I decided to do a thru-hike and exit at the Icicle Creek trailhead. On my first day, I hiked to Leprechaun Lake and camped there. Quite a beautiful spot, no one else on the entire lake. That was pretty much true for the entire Enchantment Lakes basin. I counted three other tents up there. When I turned in, I noticed that my inflatable pad had punctured. I had planned to spend a couple of days up there, but with the weather changing, nothing to read, no pictures to take, and no insulation from the cold ground, I decided to hike out the next day. Nothing remarkable about the trail down from Lake Vivian, everything was in great shape. The water level of Upper Snow Lakes was shockingly low, though. Lower Snow Lakes and Nada Lake are still easily accessible, though, to refresh your water supply. At Icicle Creek trailhead, I met a wonderful retiree who I'll call the Good Samaritan of Eagle Creek. He gave me a ride in his car back to Lake Stuart trailhead. Thank you!I started a 3-day, 2-night trip from the Snow Lake trailhead at about 10am on Monday. I set out with the intention of sleeping at Upper Snow lake the first night and proceeding beyond for the second night and then hiking all the way back out to the Snow Lake trailhead on the last day. The hike from the trailhead to Nada and Upper Snow Lake was gorgeous. At the lower altitudes there was fall foliage which made for a pleasant distraction to the constant and unrelenting uphill climb. I took my time and was able to make it to Snow Lake (approx 7 miles) in about 5 hours. I'm not sure how the water levels normally are at Snow Lake during this time of year but it was evident that the Lake was down 60-100ft from it's "normal" levels. Woke the next morning and started off for Perfection Lake at about 8am. Though the climb up Aasgard Pass gains 1900ft in less than a mile, the hike from Upper Snow to Lake Viviane is not walk in the park. Soon after crossing the tree bridge past Upper Snow, you begin to climb.  The trail goes from a trail to more route finding and following the many cairns placed throughout to keep you on track. There is plenty of scrambling and a bit of climbing. My rough calculations put it at a 1.1 mile trip and 1300'ish feet of climbing. I made it to Lake Viviane about 3 hours after I started (my pack came in at about 45lbs in total so it was slow going). Once up into the Lower Enchantment area I picked my way through Leprechaun and Sprite Lake and found a small campsite on the NE side of Perfection Lake. I set up camp, lightened my load and decided to spend the rest of the day hiking up farther, nearly making it to Aasgard Pass before turning around. Once you're up in the Enchantments the amount of climbing is relatively small with the most being the couple hundred feet of scrambling up from Inspiration Lake. The weather was gorgeous with barely a breeze all day and throughout the night. On the way out I started as early as I could and was packed up and on my way down before 7am.   The hike out was worse than the hike in.  Hiking down from Perfection Lake to Snow Lake Trailhead is a bit over 10 miles and you lose nearly 6000ft in elevation in the process. The hike out took me about 6 hours and my lower legs and feet were beat.  All that said it was very worth all the slogging up and pounding down. Will do it again next year but through hike from Colchuck Lake and deal with one steep climb as opposed to 10 miles slogging uphill. There were quite a few other backpackers and I chatted with a few nice folks along the way.One day thru hike. Reached top of Asgaards at 12.30 PM. Underestimated the remaining hike down to the snow lake trailhead. The descent in the last 5 miles were brutal on the legs. Nevertheless, it was totally worth it given the spectacular enchantments.Gorgeous fall day to explore this much anticipated area for our 3 person party. We started from the Colchuk lake trailhead and had an easy time making it up there in a sedan. We made the same mistake that some of the prior postings included, getting caught up in conversation and finding ourselves all the way to Stuart lake before realizing our 4.5 mile detour. (The sign will be on the right hand side to turn left off the main trail to Colchuk. Staying on the main trail leads you to Stuart. At first glance it looks like the trail leads to a campsite but in fact becomes steep and goes to Colchuk.) We made a game time decision at the top of Aasgard pass over coffee that we were going to complete the thru hike. We received good advice to get through the "slab section" above the Snow lakes before dark. We were successful in completing this goal, and were glad for the advice. We made it out in the dark to the Snow lakes trailhead, and after a couple failed attempts at hitching a ride, we were able to get a ride with Leavenworth shuttles back up to our car at the trailhead at 11:00pm on Sunday night. (With the nearly 5 mile detour + 18 miles, we topped out for the day at 23 miles with four in the dark.) Of note if you're deciding which direction to go, we were glad to have done the thru hike from Colchuk Lake given the loose rocks and climbing necessary up Aasgard pass, going down would've been more challenging (particularly with big packs would take longer and be slower going). Additionally the unrelenting uphill necessary to get to the lakes and pass from the Snow Lakes (2000' of elevation gain more this way) is not to be underestimated. The larches were incredible and just past prime.Great way to cap off my hiking season with the entire 18 mile through hike of the Enchantments! My friend and I set off at 7 am from the Stuart Lake trailhead and were out at the Snow Lakes trailhead at 8 pm. Larches were out of this world! The day started out with a slight drizzle and some fog at Colchuck but once we came over Aasgard and into the basin, the sky cleared and it was an amazingly beautiful day! Weather really couldn't have been better considering the time of year. Almost missed the trail heading out of Lake Viviane down to Snow so make sure to keep a keen eye out for cairns so you don't descend the hard way. Hope I get a permit next year to backpack and spend more time in this magical place.FOUND!!!!!!! Camera!!!!!!!!!  I just returned from a 5 day, 4 night backback in the Enchantments. It was incredible-everything I hoped it would be. I found a camera on the ground at Inspiration Lake. I glanced at the photos and recognized the people as a group that passed us going up Aasgard Pass doing a day thru hike on Sunday 9/27. If you are missing a camera, I turned it in to the ranger station in Leavenworth. I hope it gets reunited with its owner!!!We had a great trip with warm temperatures and quite a bit of sunshine.  After so many trips, the Snow Lakes Trail up to Viviane is still grueling.   I don't think I have seen Upper Snow Lake as low as it ever has been with the valve above Nada Lake still open October 1.  One night there were wind gusts of at least 40 mph in the lower basin and some rain.  We have visited the Enchantments area many times over the last 30 years, and I worked as a wilderness ranger in the area in the late 80's and most of the 1990's.        Damage to the Snow Lakes Trail and especially the main Enchantments trail through both the upper and lower basins has grown exponentially from even last year.   The 20-mile thru-hike from the Stuart Lake TH to the Snow Lakes TH is still gaining in popularity.  One backpacker I talked to that got a late start from the Snow Lakes Trailhead reported seeing 240 day hikers before he stopped counting on his way to Lake Viviane on October 3.  Trails are widening significantly even from a couple years ago; I was finding duplicate trails away from the cairns marking the USFS trail.  One section of trail even had two new trails, above and below the main trail.         All users, day hikers, runners and backpackers, need to really focus on staying on the trails, especially on the cairned and marked USFS routes across granite and slabs.  Sometimes the cairns are hard to see or broken down and you almost have to do a little detective work to see the right route.  This is difficult when trying to travel at a fast pace or running.  It was discouraging to see a couple runners just blatantly cut across vegetation to avoid others on the trail.         When traveling, slow down and look for the best route off of vegetation; when others might be going more slowly, be patient for a good spot to pass; think whether each boot/running shoe touches granite or vegetation; use those awkward stepping stones that have been installed to protect the trails.  If more thought isn't given in our traveling through the Enchantments, the USFS will consider more use limitations and perhaps day use permits.My wife dropped me off at the Lake Stuart/Colchuck Lake trailhead at 9:30. The first 2.5 miles are mild uphill on a good trail. I covered this stretch in 35 minutes and blew right by the turn off to Colchuck Lake because the trail was comfortable running and the sun was in my eyes. I got some beautiful pictures on the way to Lake Stuart before realizing my mistake and doubling back. On the way back, I met another runner, Chuck, who had also missed the turnoff. We ran/hiked the rest of the way to Colchuck on steeper trail. Chuck headed back and I continued around the Lake. At a convenient point, I drank my liter of water, filled the bottle and dropped in a tablet. The far end of the lake is a boulder field and the cairns where very helpful in choosing the easiest path. The cairns also helped me mostly stay on a comfortable route up Aasgard Pass which is on the left as you face the pass. It was still cold and I occasionally had to avoid stepping on little patches of ice. It's was a trudge. But, the views distracted me from my thighs. I topped out right of the main route, at a tiny partially frozen lake and headed back to the main trail from there. I was now 3hr45 from the trailhead which put me over an hour behind my last traverse five years ago. I still had plenty of time to make it out in the light. But, I had told my wife I would make the traverse in 7hrs and didn't want to worry her. So, I considered going back down and bumming a ride to snow creek trailhead. But, I decided to keep going. After Aasgard there are beautiful rocks, patches of glacier, mountain goats and almost no people. I met one lone backbacker and further down a running group of four. They were very experienced runners and I only caught them because they were taking so many pictures. I ran with this group all the way to Lake Vivianne (5hr15). Most of the high country is gentle downhill which you navigate by cairn. From Lake Vivianne, the slope increases to knee straining grade. On the upper part of this, you are often walking down steep slabs of granite following cairns. Last time I remember getting off trail near the top to the right and ending up in an precipitous gully out of which we had to climb and traverse back to skiers left. This time I followed the cairns carefully to avoid another unintentional detour. At upper snow lake (6hr) the trail mostly flattens out and becomes mostly comfortably runnable to snow creek trailhead. However, by then my knees were tired enough that I decided to maintain a low impact lope rather than a gleeful career. I reached Nada Lake in 6hr50 and the trailhead at 8hr18. My wife was only slightly worried after having decided that I would have been delayed by taking pictures on such a perfect day.(To help people plan: I drank 3.5 liters of water. Water is everywhere. You don't need to carry anything but a bottle and tablets. After a hefty breakfast, I only ate one large almond butter and jam sandwich and a couple handfuls of chocolate covered almonds during the traverse.)Golden valley of larches, super-moon lunar eclipse, mountain goats, blue skies, glorious sun ... oh wow! ... this was a trip to remember. We got off to a somewhat rainy start to colchuck lake, and was very windy for day-1. After that, it just kept getting better and better.  Since other trip reports have covered what I want to say in much greater detail, I'll just leave a few pictures here to describe a sliver what we saw.Left from the Stuart Lake trailhead too late last year and didn't end up making it to the Enchantments before sunset so I'd been hoping to try again this fall. Saved a few weekends to pick the one when the weather looked most favorable and I lucked out that a super moon eclipse was going to occur just after sunset on Sunday evening.  Started from the Snow Lake trailhead this time which I would ultimately regret as it is much, much longer than the Stuart Lake to Asgard Pass route and isn't particularly scenic (Nada Lake is rather pretty but Snow Lake's water level is very low).  It did however give me a good sampling of where to setup my camera for when the eclipse would begin.  Anyways, made it up to the Core Enchantment area in about 5 hours.  The trail between Snow Lake and Lake Vivian can be very hard to follow once you get past the tree line, especially on my way back in the dark :o   I was absolutely blown away by the colors here!  The larches were a gorgeous yellow against the azure sky, the deep blue water, the evergreens, the red sunrise/sunset on the white granite of the mountain sides.  I had seen some photos online beforehand of course but nothing truly compares to being there.  It was like someplace straight out of Lord of the Rings (or Skyrim for my generation :)).  It's like Yosemite but with lots of water+lakes and hardly any people.  I took so many photos that I nearly drained my DSLR's battery long before sunset... made a note to bring some spares next time!  Saw plenty of mountain goats and even had some unintentional close encounters as once or twice they walked right up the trail past me taking pictures. Was able to get some pretty good shots of the lunar eclipse although I am still new to photography so I need to improve my nighttime pictures...  The 10 mile hike back to the parking lot in the dark was exhausting especially since my headlamp was malfunctioning but I got lucky and ran into some climbers who were also headed back.  Thanks Skye and Eric! This is without a doubt the most beautiful place I have ever hiked.  Hope y'all enjoy the pictures.Did a thru hike of the Enchantment Lakes. Parked at Snow Lakes TH, got a shuttle to Stuart Lake TH. Started hiking at about 6.30am. Took my time by the upper lakes. Amazed that people were swimming. Scrambled around and wandered. Leprechaun Lake has some nice beach. Unreal environment. Finished by 7pm.The Larches are Gold, as of 9/21! Get on up there, if just for the day...superlatives are appropriate!HOLY SMACK!!!!! So this is what all the fuss is about. We were fortunate enough to win the permit lottery to camp in the Core Enchantments, and we spent six glorious, cold, windy (as in, 60 mph gusts hold the tent poles for two nights windy), misty, sunbreak, snowy, goaty, golden larch, teal water, indescribable rock, epic peaks, splendiferous wandering days squeezing every ounce of splendor out of this magnificent place that we could get. There are so many incredible pics at the link below, and I'm not even done uploading them!  Be aware that Upper Snow Lake is LOW -- you'll need to get water from the creek or have quite a hike down to water level. What you need to know: prepare for snow, cold, and wind. The snow melted so trails are still clear, but the clouds come in FAST and cling lovingly. Two day hikers got lost when we were there, and we saw the rescue helicopters looking for them. I hope they're ok! Couldn't find anything on it, so I assume they are. Superlatives fail, so I'll let the Flickr album do my talking for me.Finally got a permit to camp in the core zone! We unfortunately timed our visit with some pretty gusty winds, but found a very protected campsite between Inspiration Lake and Perfection Lake that made our experience much better! Didn't experience snow, but I heard that it had snowed an inch or so earlier in the week (it had melted by the time we arrived).  Hiked in and out via Aasgard Pass -- much harder with full packs than last year when we did the thru-hike (Stuart Lake Trailhead to Snow Lakes Trailhead)! Larch trees are turning, so great time to go. Not sure what to add other than 1) be prepared for cold weather (bring lots of layers!), 2) the core zone is as incredible as everyone says, 3) Aasgard w/ full packs and gusty weather is tough (but worth it!), and 4) I didn't regret bringing one beer to enjoy at camp!  Can't wait until my next visit to the Enchantments!The eight of us took off for a four day adventure through the crown jewel of the Alpine Lakes Wilderness, arguably the crown jewel of Washington state or the entire Pacific Northwest.  The weather held out and we were rewarded with three beautiful days and star filled nights. Although the mileage was long at times and the trail steep in sections, there was no better way to experience such spectacular mountain scenery.For those wishing to venture into this wonder.  Please read the route introduction and distances.  This is a wonderful place and I'm not posting the wonderful photo's but photo's of what it takes to conquer this wonderful hike.  The route introduction does it justice, but this is not an well established trail that you just hike.  You will need a map and an understanding of the area from the map.  Cairns are most valuable reference point you will encounter, but several areas on Aasgard Pass have multiple cairns.  Cairns are small stacks of rocks making the general direction of travel, especially as you travel on the rocks were there are ways of establishing a trail.  Understand what direction you need to be traveling.  There are multiple areas (Aasgard Pass, drop down into Isolation lake, drop down from ledge of Lake Viviane before the water crossing and route down to Snow Lake where there are scramble sections.  In addition, you walk along a ledge and cross down the rocks sections, including the famous rebar step section around Lake Viviane.  We encountered many folks who were lost and helped point them in the right direction.  Our last day, we watch the fine folks of Chelan County Search and Rescue assist some lost folks.  Amazing pilot skills of the helicopter pilot to place the ground folks to assist the lost hikers.  Understand the weather forecast, this is the Enchantments, 6,500' - 7,800' in elevation, the weather is much different than what is encounter in Leavenworth.  It snowed 3" on Thursday, but melted away by the afternoon.  Please remember you 10 essentials when venturing into this wonder.From the Old Fellas,Started at the Stuart trailhead at 6:30 am for the thru dayhike to the lower trailhead. I found it to be a challenging but great hike. The weather was nice and there were many people doing the loop. The scenery was spectacular with the Larches just turning colors. Had lunch with a goat and her kid. A Great day on the trail. We are in the 60+ group, but whatever age you are, be in pretty good shape to do this day hike. Snack often and drink plenty of water! At about 18 miles, it will test you. We got to the lower trailhead at 7:10 and were pretty spent. I think I was about 1 mile from bonking! Also, if your typically not a hiking pole user, I strongly suggest having them. You will have to carry them a couple of times, but from Asgard down your knees will thank you!I had a permit for "Core Enchantment" starting September 14, but the forecast was for rain/snow starting that day and continuing for the week.  So I went to Leavenworth Ranger Station on September 10 to see if I could enter earlier.  The weather was hot and dry.  After staying overnight in my bivy sack among the RV's at Eightmile Campground on Icicle River Road, I showed up at 7 am along with 6 other people wanting available "day-of" permits.  I planned to go up Aasgard Pass, but was saved from this fate by the fact that I got a permit to Snow Lake.  I really wanted to do a through hike with my pack, but I am really glad I didn't attempt to come down Aagard wearing my pack.  I camped near an experienced packer in this area, and he strongly advised against coming down the pass, especially with a large backpack.  So the first day was a grueling ~4500 ft. climb with seemingly endless switchbacks and I camped at Nada Lake.  The second day, I added the ~1000 feet to Snow Lake, and the third day, I hauled my stuff to Lake Vivienne.  There were many through hikers zipping along the 19 miles from Colchuck Lake Trailhead to Snow Lake.  One group found themselves at Lake Vivienne at 9 pm and were persuaded by a large family camped near me to spend the night with them rather than continue down over the granite slabs in the dark. Having set up at Lake Vivienne, I enjoyed a day hike almost to Isolation Lake and back.  I saw mountain goats and a marmot.  Larches were yellow-green and the basin was spectacular.  The trail was almost too well-worn and popular.  There were cairns across the granite slabs to direct hikers, and there were some scrambles up huge rock faces.  There is plenty of water all along the trail. On Sunday night, as forecasted, the weather turned cold and windy.  I hiked all the way out and just when I reached the parking lot, it began to rain.  I'm sure it was snowing in the upper lakes.Sunny, clear day hiking from Colchuck Lake to Perfection Lake in the Enchantments. The following day a light dusting of snow came over Aasgard Pass making it tougher to climb.The golden alpine larches are starting to turn in the Core Enchantments area!  We stayed at Upper Snow Lake by the creek (which is very low) the first night.  The next morning we hiked up to Leprechaun Lake where we set up camp for the next few days under the larch trees.  On Friday (9/4) we hiked across the basin to the top of Aasgard.   The upper lakes are a little low but not as noticeable as Snow Lakes.  Temperatures dropped below freezing every night with a bit of wind.  Snow flurries were also common every day.  We were thankful for weather.gov forecasts so we were prepared for the cold!   The cairns marked the trails well all the way from Snow Lakes to Aasgard with very little to no snow patches to cross.  The larches will be in full color at least a week early this year so prepare for that if you're planning a through hike!!Believe the hype. To hike through The Enchantments is to enter the stuff of fairy tales. But tell me, how did I spend four days here and not see a single mountain goat?!  Day 1: We came in from the Stuart Lake Trailhead and up Aasgard Pass to spend our first night near Tranquil Lake. It was cloudy, rainy, windy and the igniter on our stove didn't want to fire (luckily we had matches too).  Day 2: We woke up to a trace of snow and it was still coming down as we ate breakfast. Shortly thereafter, though, the clouds lifted and we had fair skies for our journey down to Sprite Lake where we made camp. We lounged by the lakes and climbed up Prusik Pass for some great views of the basin.  Day 3: Sunrise lit up the larches below Sprite Lake. Autumn is coming! We hiked down out of the core Enchantments with plans to camp at Snow Lake, but as it was hailing at the time, we thought we'd just keep moving. We set up at the far end of Nada Lake. Day 4: A quick 5.6 miles out meant time to feast on brats and pretzels in Leavenworth! We didn't swim in any lakes like we had dreamed of, but then again, we could barely keep warm with all the layers we had. Highs were in the 40s. Lows were freezing and below. As for wildlife, we saw marmot, deer, mice, chipmunks, and an osprey. But not a single. damn. goat.This trip report is long overdue but I hope it will still be useful for future Enchantment seekers. This area has long been on my bucket list but I am new to backpacking and so the whole process intimidated me, including the lottery and of course the actual hike. We were chosen for late August so we spent the summer preparing with several day hikes and a couple of one-nighters. We ended up with a large group of 8, none of whom had done the trip before and most of us were novice backpackers. For the most part we were all in pretty good shape, some better than others. We planned on a 3-night through hike from the Mt Stuart TH basing most of our nightly destinations off of a green trails map and suggestions from other hikers online. The weather was in our favor on Monday when we set out with temperatures in Leavenworth around 85 degrees. We left two cars at the Snow Lakes TH and within 30 minutes arrived at the Mt Stuart TH (around 2pm). We left for the trail shortly after. The trail to Colchuck was in beautiful shape and alternated between steep sections and plateaus. The final stretch to Colchuck was the hardest but there were ample views of the valley below along the way to distract us from the task at hand. We took our time and regrouped often. We were all so thrilled to be there and the vibe of our group was energetic and anxious (we were facing Aasgard the next day). We dropped down to the edge of Colchuck Lake and got a good view of Aasgard pass. The water was cold but refreshing and so enticing after our hike in! We planned to keep hiking until to we got to the base of Aasgard but got tired and hungry, and realized it was further way than we thought. You cannot see the whole lake when you first get to it due to trees and rocky outcroppings and the trail that wraps along the edge is deceptively long and technical in parts. We set up camp next to a pond in a spot that was large enough for our 5 tents. This area is probably pretty "buggy" in the earlier summer months but we lucked out and did not deal with any bugs while we were there. And we saw our first mountain goat shortly after pitching our tents! It was a majestic sight and got us excited about getting into the core the next day. We set out for Aasgard around 10am, reaching the base by 11am. The boulder field at the south end of Lake Colchuck is tricky. Follow the cairns and watch your step. Aasgard. It was tough. The hardest hiking I have ever done. Add a 40 lb pack and it was nearly impossible for a few members of our group but we all did it in the end! It took us between 3- 4 hours (there were a few different paces among us). The first portion is mostly a large boulder field, toward the middle it gets very steep with sliding gravel underfoot and narrow trails. The final push is through some large granite outcroppings, some of which are steep and require high steps up (I had to be pulled up and over one). Along the way you are rewarded with expansive views of Lake Colchuck and passing waterfalls. The top looks like the surface of the moon. It is very stark with limited vegetation but it does not take long to see the beauty in it all. Our destination was a spit of land between Inspiration and Perfection Lakes. The area between the top of Aasgard and Inspiration is breathtaking. I regret that we did not have more time to linger. It was truly a wonderland with meandering waterways, sun-bleached boulders, mossy meadows, and wide-open blue sky. I would highly recommend camping here and will plan on doing so if we return. We thought we may be able to come back once we set up camp but the pass down into Inspiration is no joke. It is steep and none of us wanted to go back the way we came once we descended. Inspiration is stunning and bitterly cold! We jumped in, and out. We found a large campsite at the far end of the lake and to our delight we were surrounded by goat families most of the evening and into the next day. For our last night we headed to Nada Lake so we would have an easy fourth day out. The trail along the way just got more and more beautiful. It is hard to describe because it is the stuff of fairytales and fantasy. The descent to Snow Lake was tiresome. It was long and steep and I cannot imagine it is a much easier route into the Enchantments than Aasgard. Our knees were aching by the end and we were happy to set up camp at one of the first sites near Nada. The last day out was easy and we got to the parking lot around 1pm. This trip gave us a great overview of the Enchantments trail but I do feel we missed a lot. I would highly recommend 4-5 nights for the through hike. This would allow you to set up camp for a couple of nights and take some day trips. We missed Little Annapurna and Gnome Tarn, both of which were on my list to see but it was just too much to fit in the time we allotted. It would have been nice to have had a day of rest as well, to lounge by the lakes, fish, and swim some more. We will try our luck again next year!Where do I begin??  This was the trip of the summer.  I went with my 15 year old daughter, my husband and one of my girlfriends.  We started at the Lake Stuart trailhead, hiked to Colchuck and then on over Aasgard.  It was GORGEOUS!  Blue sky most of the way, white puffy clouds, wild flowers, mountain goats, you name it.  It was every good thing that the Enchantments could be.    The colors on top of Aasgard are amazing.  Pastels.  I've never seen anything like it.  The rocks alongside the turquoise water everywhere was breathtaking.  The hike is pretty easy and though Aasgard is quite an elevation gain there are plenty of places to rest and enjoy the view.  The rest of the way was down. :)   I'm hoping to get back up here several times this coming summer and hopefully all of the stars will align and I'll get a permit to camp!  Woot woot!Hiked with 5 friends from the Snow Lakes trailhead for four nights, two at Snow Lakes, two in the Enchantments. We are all in our fifties, and most of us found it pretty challenging, but most of would like to do it again! Amazing scenery. Finding camp sights for four tents took some searching at Snow Lakes, but we had a wonderful place at Leprachaun Lake in the Enchantments. We were glad we did the Snow Lakes route, which is longer, but less steep than Aasgard Pass. We wish we'd had one more night in the Enchanments, as there is so much to see up there. We didn't have time for Little Annapurna, but did swim in both Snow Lakes and in Leprechaun and Perfection Lakes. Warm enough to actually swim, for several minutes or more. We had no bugs! And the goats were not aggressive, as long as we walked far from camp to pee. While the trail was in good condition, there were several spots where we got lost, and followed trails to other lakes off the main trail; take a good map!Just wrote a post on my blog about my trip this past August! Check it out!While we were staying in the core, woke up to watch the sunrise from the rocks and then scamper up Little Annapurna.  We camped on the shore of Isolation Lake.  It was just a mile up from our campsite to Annapurna at 8'463.  I went from the large rock forming a ridge on the east side of the lake, then followed them back down & up towards the snow creek glacier.  The glacier must have been really melted out with the low snow year.  The snow section I had to cross at the top of the rocks to move over to Little Annapurna was very small (and not steep).  While going up...The rocks were about waist high, it was a perfect area to climb by pushing your body up and using your feet to find holds.  I am not a rock climber, I was very comfortable with the angle and the places to grab on with hands/feet.  On the way down I sat on my bottom as I climbed from perch to perch.  I was the only one up at the summit at 7am.  There were no other backpackers camping close to us.  It was a beautiful day, I could see north to Glacier & Baker and Rainier was looming to the south.  There's even cell service from the top of this peak if you need to check in with a loved one.    Took me about an hour to get up there, enjoyed the views and serenity for an hour at the top,  then an hour on the way down.    I think there's a more direct route if you start at the base of Little Annapurna coming up her flank but that would have been a little out of the way from my starting point.  Highly recommend this side trip it's an easier one and will leave a lasting impression.Through hiked from Snow Lakes TH to Stuart Lake TH in 8.5 hours. I did not mess around and I am a fit distance runner, so be warned: it takes time. The climb to Asgard Pass felt easy (5.5 hours) , but descent down the very steep and very loose north side took forever and made the rest of the trip painful. Trail uphill hard to find at times, both on blank rock sections and at some stream crossings; a map is essential, and you need to pay attention to the rock cairns. It would not be easy in mist or a white-out ! Lots of mountain goats ready to invade your personal space. Got snowed on at the pass. Rode my MTB back down the road; all downhill and definitely the way to go for a soloist.We applied for the Enchantments permits in February, not quite sure how the process works. We were awarded 2 nights at Colchuck Lake (my back-up request), and decided to go for a day hike from Colchuck up Aasgard into the upper Enchantments, and back down to Colchuck. I didn't know if this was reasonable, but after speaking with a ranger, it sounded like it was.Heading out from Seattle on Sunday morning, we arrived at the trailhead within 2.5 hours. The road to the Stuart Lake trailhead was rough as expected, but we did it slowly in a 2-wheel drive Mazda, and made it without a problem.The Stuart Lake/Colchuck Lake trail is in great condition, soft trail through forest, and slowly gaining into a rockier ascent. A couple of great viewpoints open up as you near the top. It took us a little over 2 hours with full packs to reach the lake. WTA volunteers were hard at work that day.At the first views of the lake, you notice the DEEP turquoise color. It's striking. The trail is a little squirrelly around the lake, but if you go off on a side trail, it usually ends up at the lake or at a campsite, so just get back on the main trail and keep looking for cairns. There is a rocky viewpoint at the lower end of the lake, but knowing we wanted to snag a sweet campsite, we kept skirting around. We scouted out the BEST campsite along the western edge of the lake, just past the little pond. It was right on the water, with a private rock beach, perfect logs to sit on, and some nice hammock trees.That evening, we took a little jaunt further along the trail to see what our next day (day trip up Aasgard to the Upper Enchantments) entailed. We were glad we did, because not soon past the campsite, the trail starts a rock-hop, one that could be challenging with a heavy pack, and it was good to check it out.A ranger did visit our site that evening. He said he had spent 5 days in the Enchantments scooping up poop and cleaning up garbage. PLEASE leave no trace! Use the toilets, or bury a hole! We saw lots of toilet paper piling up along a slope above the campsite. Not cool.Wind at the lake kept the bugs away and we had a quiet evening watching the light dancing over the slopes above the lake (Dragontail Peak and Aasgard Pass).We hung the food bag, but a small snack bag accidentally didn't make it in, and was chewed up overnight by a chipmunk or small rodent.We got an early start the next day, hopped over the rocks and started the ascent up Aasgard Pass. It is strenuous and arduous, but we just took our time, being careful to find the cairns marking the path. At times they seem to disappear, but if you keep going up in the same general direction, usually another cairn came into view. The 'trail' crosses the creek and stays the the left side of it until you near the top. At times, the trail has several options which meet back up, so just choose the best one in your opinion. We were scrambling on hands and feet at times, and were glad to have gloves to protect our hands from rough rocks. It was also getting colder and windier towards the top. It took 2 hours to get to conquer the climb (with light day packs). Colchuck lake and its surrounding peaks create a striking view as you ascend.At the crest, we took a break and checked the map. The basin of the upper Enchantments stretches out from the top of Aasgard Pass, snaking in between smaller lakes, over rocky areas, and through more meadowy spots. It feels like being on another planet. Cairns mark the way, and although we did lose them at one point, we were able to backtrack and find them. You can't go too wrong, as the views in all directions are striking. There were some lovely campsites up there. There were marmot scurrying about, and we gazed upon a goat mom and baby munching on some grass in the shade. The were not scared of us. Other goats seemed both curious and skiddish, and we heard of one that was slightly more aggressive. We went as far as the overlook down onto Crystal Lake and decided to turn around. I'm glad we did because the descent down Aasgard Pass took us closer to 3 hours. It felt more strenuous than the ascent (maybe because we were tired).After another lovely (and tired) night at Colchuck, we hiked out the next day. Overall, it was a hugely successful trip, and the rewards of the Enchantments make the strenuous hike up there worth it. I highly recommend it! Next year we'll probably try our luck at the lottery again, although I hear they save many permits for same-day hikers. So perhaps being spontaneous is the best bet. Many people were doing it as a through-hike, but it seems like an incredibly tiring day, so not for an unseasoned hiker.This report covers the traverse from the Lake Stuart trailhead to the Snow Lakes trailhead.   This is a long, tough dayhike.   It should only be attempted by very strong hikers.   It was hard to find a description of this hike in a guidebook.   Using my Green Trail map, the hike is 19.8 miles, gains approximately 4700', and loses approx 6700'.   Needless-to-say, an early start is advised.   I did the hike with my friends Shellie and Jill.  I'll give you our times for each section and I consider us to be reasonably fast hikers. The road to the Lake Stuart trailhead, off of Icicle Creek Road, is 4 rough miles but very passable in an ordinary car.   The 4.2 mile hike to Colchuck Lake is pretty straightforward, gaining about 2200'.   This took us 2 hours.   When you get to the southern end of the lake, you have to cross several boulder fields, which will slow you down.   It's about 1 mile to get around the lake to the base of Aasgard Pass and this took us another hour (total 3 hours). Then you have the steep ascent up Aasgard Pass.   You gain another 2200' in somewhere around a mile.   I've seen it written up as anywhere from 3/4 mile to 1.5 miles.   It's steep.   And not really a trail.  The route is easy to follow with cairns marking the way.   About halfway up, you'll see a series of small waterfalls.   There's a large rock outcropping to the left of the falls with trees growing from it.   Stay left of the rock outcropping.   This ascent took us 2.5 hours (total 5.5 hours to the Pass).   Please note, going UP Aasgard Pass seems much easier and safer than going DOWN Aasgard Pass.   Thus, we would all recommend doing this hike in the direction described here.  Once at the pass, it's pretty much all downhill.   But the going is tough in places and it's easy to end up going down a side trail.  Stay focused on the large cairns.  You don't have a lot of time for unplanned detours.   The area is SPECTACULAR!    Enjoy it, but keep moving.   It's hard to make good time through the Enchantments since you will be stopping to take a lot of pictures and the trail is not something you can cruise down.   It's very rocky.   We averaged about 1.5 miles per hour until we go to the end of Nada Lake. Once you pass Nada Lake, the trail is much easier and you can make better time.   From the Pass to the end of the hike, it was 13.3 miles and it took us another 8 hours.   We finished the last 2+ miles with headlamps, which slowed us down as there is a 1000' descent at the end.   We completed the entire trail in 13.5 hours.   Very fast hikers can do it much faster, I'm sure.   But medium speed hikers will do it more slowly.   We were not passed by anyone all day.    After finishing the trail, you are 8 miles from your car.   Not many people will want to drive up the road to the Lake Stuart trailhead at the end of the day so I'd advise you leave a car at both ends, or leave a car at the end and hitch a ride to the beginning of the hike.    Be sure to go prepared.   The weather can change in a heartbeat- one minute summer, the next minute winter.   Take a good headlamp.   Take your 10 essentials.   Take something to purify water.   And throw in an emergency shelter or blanket just in case.   Enjoy!Day/Thru- hiked the Enchantments from Stuart Lake TH to Snow Lakes TH. Left my bike at the Snow Lakes TH, parked at Stuart Lake TH, and started by proceeding up to Colchuck Lake. All in all, thru-hiking this trail is a beast, but a beautiful one, and one I would do again. Today my legs are very sore but my mind is still reliving parts of it. It took me 10 hours to walk from Stuart Lake TH to Snow Lakes TH (I stopped for 5-6 15 min. breaks and jogged down much of the last 2-3 miles above Snow Lakes TH.  Took me 1.5 hours to bike from the Snow Lakes TH back to Stuart Lake TH- this was the physical killer for me since I used my old 1990 mtn. bike.  I think it's about 4 miles on Icicle Road- fine, but then 4 more miles very steeply uphill on the Eightmile Road to Stuart Lake. This road is in very bad condition.  I ditched my daypack at the bottom and was still challenged by riding up that road after that 10-hour hike. That said, it was an amazing experience- sort of exactly what I wanted just physically harder than expected. My "learnings" for when I do this next are have relatively new trail running shoes and just filter 1-2 bottles of water to carry less weight.It was my first attempt to faux thru-hike (in and out) in a day.  I started the trek around 4am, went 9 miles in and back.  I think I got back to my car around 8pm.  It was a long day!  But I packed as light as possible. This was my 4th time to the Enchantments.  I highly recommend going up Aasgard before the sun hits it.  Because I started so early, I think I only sweated 3-4 times going up.  It took me around 2 hours to get up with a light pack.  It's a little confusing to find the path towards Aasgard after Colchuck though....I'm not sure how I ended up figuring out but I totally came back a whole different way, so who knows.  I was surprised to see how little people there were up there.  Only passed a few overnighters and a handful of trail runners.   I went all the way to Sprite Lake and turned around at around 9 miles.  At that moment, I had wished I would've had a car switch so I could just finish at Snow Lake, but oh well.  Coming back was nice though.  It was cool to see the Upper Enchantments going the other way, different views.  Going down Aasgard was treacherous though.  I slid and slipped many times....I will probably not attempt that ever again.  I was so happy to be back at my car.  I don't think I got home till around 11pm that night but it was the best.  I also got really sunburned...make sure to sunscreen yall.We took a Saturday - Tuesday trip through the Enchantments via Snow Lake. We base-camped at Snow Lake and day hiked into the Core Sunday and Monday. Upper Snow Lake is very low. I recommend camping at beginning of Upper Snow Lake (which faces Lower Snow Lake) or the end of Upper Snow Lake. All of the sites in the middle are great but not convenient to get into the water. Swimming is key this time of year. The water is the perfect temperature and you're going to want to wash all the dirt and grime off of your body from hiking.  We had zero issues with bugs. They were around here and there but I counted two mosquito bites the whole trip. We asked a number of groups about bugs and got everything from miserable to zero. That also could be camp selection. Our base camp was pretty exposed to wind and that may have helped. I'll trade a slight breeze for no bugs any day. It was breezy during our day hikes, too.  Unless you need a lot of water, there's no need to carry more than a couple liters of water. Our party carried about 2 liters each and it was plenty. You'll be close enough to water the whole trip.  The hike up to Snow Lake is a bit of a slog but not as bad as everyone told us. From Snow Lake to the Core is another slog, but again, not too bad. Just take your time and enjoy what's around you. As soon as you hit the first lake, though, BAM, it's the most beautiful place i've been to in WA and it's not so steep of an ascent anymore. We ran into a lot of thru-hikers and thru-trail runners. I have no idea why someone would hike the 18 miles in one day, let alone run it. I'm guessing it's bragging rights because you don't have a lot of time to sit back and enjoy where you are at. The most taxing part of the hike will be from the trailhead through the exposed trees. It'll get hot if the sun's out.  All-in-all, the 8 of us agreed it's the best backpacking we've done in the state. It's not easy but it's not impossible. However, it's a must-do for any backpacker.  There are plenty of goats everywhere. They are curious and get close but never got closer than 10 feet and always went about their own business. We also saw deer daily. I'd recommend hanging food to keep it hard for chipmunks and birds to steal your food. There were two birds who liked to dive bomb our camp for whatever we had to eat. Bring a fishing pole and permit, too. The lakes are packed full of trout. They are everywhere. We had luck with a spinning rod and Red Devil lures in Lower Snow Lake and flys would be the best for the Core lakes and streams.We day hiked the Enchantments from Snow Lake TH to Colchuck Lake TH, and then rode bikes back down the road (ditched the bikes before we started). Snow conditions: 100% FREE OF SNOW. No snow on the trail. Aasgard Pass and everything else was completely free of snow. If you're hiking up Dragontail, you'd have to cross the glacier still, but that's not part of the normal Enchantments trail, that's a side trip. Trail conditions: Great trail, no issues. Road conditions: The 3.7 mile dirt road up to Colchuck Lake TH is rough, lots of washboard, a few minor washouts. Plenty of sedans still drive up it, but they go very slow. Other people don't feel comfortable taking their sedans up the road. Make sure to watch the high quality video linked below!!Parked cars at each end of the trail heads. Started hiking to Colchuck Lake on Thursday, trail was clear and fairly easy to hike. Camped before we got to the rocks that lead to Aasgard Pass. Next morning we packed up and headed up the steep Aasgard pass and made it up in about 2-2.5 hours and then continued to a nice camping spot between Inspiration and Perfection lakes where we fit 4 tents and camped. Woke up and hiked back up to Little Annapurna for some spectacular views, the best of the trip we thought. The hike took us about 3 hours from our camp spot at Perfection lake to the top and back. Lost a Static V sleeping pad during pack up (contact me at four two five nine four one one zero two eight, if found). Headed down to upper snow lake and camped on the sand and swam in the water. Wasn't too cold, extremely refreshing, a must in my book. The bugs were pretty bad when the sun went down so we bundled up or stayed in tents for the rest of the evening. Woke up early and were able to knock out the rest of the trail in a few hours. Legs were sore for the group and the sun was hot for the last bit, only a little shade for the last couple miles.Found a sleeping pad about 1 mile up the trail from the snow lake TH. tell me the type and i'll connect you with it. eight four seven four three one zero five four threeSpent the night at the Colchuck trailhead so we could get an early start to our run through to the Snow Lakes trailhead by the afternoon. 4:30am start time, arrived at Colchuck around 5:45am and were up Aasgard Pass a bit after 7:00am. Encountered a handful of goats at the pass and Upper Enchantments. We took a detour up to the summit of Little Annapurna and were gifted with gorgeous views of the surrounding area - very little snow and generally pretty easy to navigate starting from the lower approach as long as you follow the cairns/just head upward. Mostly cloudy day until the early afternoon, when it started to get a little warmer. Blessed with good luck, we found some friendly backpackers who were willing to give us a lift back to the Colchuck trailhead within two minutes of finishing the run, right around 2:30pm.What an incredible experience this trip was! We started around 6am from the Stuart Lake TH and hiked up to Colchuck Lake. The hike to Colchuck is terrifc in itself, and I would love to do it again as a day hike. The route up Aasgard is not a "hike" in any way. It is an outright "climb" over boulders the entire way. it cannot be stressed enough that this route is only appropriate for those who are in terrific physical shape. It is incredibly steep and can be really hot on the exposed rock face. That said, it is a really interesting and striking route with great scenery in every direction the whole way up. We had been warned about a false summit at the top of Aasgard, but didn't really find this to be the case in our experience. Once in the Enchantments core, we thoroughly enjoyed following the trail from lake to lake. Each bend in the trail takes you to another incredibly magical spot. Plan to take a million photos. We saw goats everywhere. We probably saw 50 or more during our three-day trip. And there were tons of "new kids on the block" too. We were really concerned about the difficulty of trail finding during our hike, but it was absolutely no problem. The cairns were very clear throughout. On the rare occasion that we didn't immediately see the next cairn, we would quickly find the next one after a few more steps ahead. We were unprepared for the difficulty and length of the descent from Lake Viviane to Upper Snow Lake. This part of the trail is like a mini-Aasgard! it is very steep, rocky, and taxing. We were so relieved to finally make it to our camp site at Snow Lake that evening. The bugs throughout the Enchantments are no joke. Whether near the water or in the woods, at night or in the middle of the day, they are bad almost anytime and anywhere. One of the people in our party wore 100% DEET. It wasn't overkill. I brought a light fleece and pants, and I was happy to have them for some slightly cooler temps one night and also for bug protection. While halfway down the trail from Nada Lake on our exit, we encountered a rattlesnake on the trail. I think a lot of us hikers from Western Washington forget that this is a potential danger east of the mountains. The snake rattled and we stopped in time. We took a few steps back and stomped in place until the snake finally left the trail. Keep your ears open. Otherwise the descent from Snow and Nada Lakes is not very memorable. If you want the full Enchantments experience, climbing over Aasgard Pass is a must. We were surprised by all of the dangerous spots on Aasgard Pass and in the area between Lake Viviane and Snow Lakes. We felt like we should be wearing helmets and using climbing gear! None of us fell or got hurt, but we did see some other people with nasty gashes on their legs and faces. Again, it is all part of the adventure! Lastly, I wish WTA or someone else would write a guide book (or booklet) to the Enchantments. It seemed incredibly difficult to get information about this hike. One chapter in a guidebook is insufficient. The permit system is also a complete mess, but I doubt that will change anytime soon. It's a shame that camp sites aren't numbered and assigned to the lottery winners. There were a lot of people trying to fit into the camp areas at Snow Lakes while we were there. We saw exhausted hikers coming in late and having to pass by our camp while searching for a suitable site. Our site got invaded on the second day by a family with noisy young children and a camper who peed all over the toilet seat. :(A thru hike of the Enchantments had been on my bucket list for a long time. Let me start by saying this was an amazing hike and something that I will remember for a long time but wow it was not easy. We started at the Stuart/Colchuck TH and followed the recommended path up Asgard and down through the Snow Lake TH to end. Getting to Colchuck was pretty basic and without issue, even stopped for a swim which was fantastic. After Colchuck we began Asgard. Wow. Getting up was no east task, took me about 1hr 45 min and I'm in decent shape. The first half isn't too bad but after the section on trees it goes to another level. After getting to the top you understand why you just went up it, beautiful. All the lakes, granite, trees, and goats. This is truly a beautiful spot and not like anything else I have ever done/been. The trail through the lakes is pretty easy and consistently downhill headed this way, we had quite a few goats want to get close and some even had babies with them! After wandering the lakes for a few hours we headed down in the Snow Lake direction which is quite steep in it's own right. Once you reach the lake you still have quite a ways to go and lots of elevation to lose. We ended up spending several hours hiking in the dark. After thru hiking it I would advise anyone else to leave really early in morning, earlier than you want to and make sure you are in pretty good physical shape, this is no easy task.This takes a long time and you will want to spend time around the lakes! I'm not sure that I will ever thru hike this area again but I do want to go back and camp, seems like a much better option.Just a quick summary for those of you thinking of going up.  :) "Quick" being a relative term... Things to Know about Temp & Mosquitoes--------------------------------------------------------The ranger station has a weather forecast for 7000 feet and it's accurate.  The temperature really was about 80 at the top during the day and didn't cool down very much at night. I brought my down jacket, but only used it as a pillow. Long sleeve shirts are generally plenty and help with mosquitoes. Mosquitoes are tolerable with a breeze at Colchuck and at the top. We camped at Upper Snow Lake on the very west (upper) end and the mosquitoes were okay, mostly because we had a good breeze.  The mosquitoes were pretty bad starting around the middle of Upper Snow Lake and past Lower Snow Lake. I didn't notice any mosquitoes at Nada Lake. Our Hike--------------------------------------------------------We did the loop with some friends, starting at the Colchuck side (Stuart Lake TH), coming out at the Snow Lake TH. Day 1: hiked up to Colchuck Lake and camped.  Mosquitoes sent us to bed ~8pm. Disappointed that we didn't make it to the top of Aasgard Pass on day 1, but it was incredibly hot, so probably a good decision to camp. Day 2: starting hiking around 7am to hike up to Aasgard Pass in the shade.  This was a very good decision. A bit rock slippery, but easy enough going up with a full pack. Might be hard going down.  Go left at the rock face near the top (away from the waterfall). Saw a marmot. Lounged around Tranquil Lake, starting seeing goats, ate lunch, loved every minute. Probably mid-80s temperature-wise. Camped past Isolation Lake, before heading down to Inspiration Lake.  Beautiful. Mosquitoes tolerable when there was a breeze, but the dying breeze again sent us in our tents ~8pm. Lots of goats and kids all round the core Enchantments. Day 3: hiked down to Lake Viviane for some swimming and lunch.  Stayed there for a few hours. Very nice camping options. Continued on to camp on the west (upper) side of Upper Snow Lake. Saw 1 goat. This vantage point on the lake gave us good breeze and kept mosquitoes at bay.  Day 4: got up early to hike out in the shade (another good decision - shade was great!). Mosquitoes very bad from about mid-Upper Snow Lake to past Lower Snow Lake. Didn't notice any mosquitoes at Nada and beyond. Saw a bunny just before Nada Lake. Beautiful waterfall. Very hot by the time we got to the cars about noon. Enjoyed bratwurst and beers in Leavenworth (the misty outdoor seating is fantastic).This was simply amazing and I will be back! Road to trail head was rough for cars. Trail was easy entering Stewart zone to Stewart lake. We hiked to steward lake, then to Colchuck Lake in the Colchuck zone. Hiking to Colchuck was amazing, if you hear a waterfall I EXTREMELY recommend finding the little path too it and lay under it! It was definitely a trip highlight. Camped at Colchuck Lake and the water and surrounding areas were breath taking, warm enough to swim. The second day we left for asguard pass and it took an hour or so to start the climb. We summited in about 2 hours. The core Enchantment Zone was indescribable and I'm disappointed we couldn't venture longer. We started seeing some goats midway up asguard pass and all over the core zone, even baby goats! We lost the path descending asguard.. following the cairns was rough! Cairns marked the entire paths starting with asguard so beware. We came down from the core zone the same day we climbed it. We stayed the second night at Colchuck Lake then hiked out the following day. I recommend swimming in the smaller lake after Colchuck Lake on the way to/from asguard pass. I actually swam alone in this very warm lake, and saw more goats and baby goats. The entire trip was very enchanting and I was so blown away around every corner. I'm excited to try snow lakes trail and more core zone during my next visit!Wow wow wow! This was my first time in the Enchantments and we were lucky enough to have a Core permit this past Thursday-Sunday. We drove to Leavenworth Wednesday night and stayed at Eightmile campground to be able to get an earlier start on Thursday. We planted a car at the Snow Lakes trailhead in the morning and then all piled in the other car and drove up to the Stuart Lake trailhead to start our trek.  The hike to Colchuck is well-maintained and went really smoothly. We had lunch on the lake shore just beneath Aasgard Pass and mentally prepared ourselves for the climb ahead! We started up the pass around 2:30pm - we decided ahead of time that we wanted to push through and get up into the Core on the first day. That said, it was a terrible time of day to hike that ascent with no respite from the sun. Luckily the elevation gain started to cool us down about half-way up. The route up Aasgard requires a good eye for cairns and a knack for trail-finding, but goes up the left side of the pass and is not terribly difficult to follow, just takes patience and perseverance! Speaking of those things, it took us four hours to get to the top of the pass, but as soon as we crossed over none of that struggle mattered - so beautiful up top! There's no snow up Aasgard but you immediately encounter snow up top and some of the first lakes are still mostly frozen over. We were able to find snow-free campsites with ease, though. We camped at the first sites marked on the Green Trails map - just down from Isolation Lake about a quarter mile or so from the top of Aasgard. This was a beautiful spot but was not terribly close to a pit toilet. LOTS of goat visitors that high up so important to pee far away from camp.  The next day we continued down the trail - certainly still some snow patches to cross up here but they're melting quickly (which also means be wary of falling through in some places - happened to all of us at least once!). We lost the trail for a bit descending to Inspiration Lake and ended up making life a little harder on ourselves, but so it goes. From Inspiration Lake onwards all the lakes are melted out. We had a nice lunch stop at Sprite Lake and then set up camp at an awesome little peninsula on Leprechaun Lake. BUT THE BUGS. The bugs were so bad most of the time that we hid in our tents when hanging out at camp - they finally went away around 10:30pm.  The next day a few of us decided to explore without packs - we went back up the trail and hiked up to Prusik Pass and got some amazing views over the Enchantments basin, including Shield, Perfection, Inspiration, Leprechaun, and Vivianne lakes. After coming down we hiked up to Inspiration Lake for a snack and rest in the shade, before heading back to camp at Leprechaun and packing up our remaining items to head further down trail. We left camp at 4:30pm trying to avoid the heat of the day somewhat and made our descent down to Snow Lakes before setting up camp at Nada Lake, which we arrived to around 7:30pm. The descent was challenging but convinced all of us that we had certainly gone the right way hiking Colchuck --> Snow.  The dam crossing at Lower Snow Lake is flowing fairly high and definitely got some feet wet in our group. We found a great site at Nada to camp that was back by a stream, which cooled down the area and decreased the bugs significantly. We did hang our food that night, but while in the Upper basin had built small rock forts surrounding food stuffs to try and keep small critters out. We started down from Nada at 8:30am on Sunday and made the 6 mile, 4000ft descent in 2.5hrs, as the trail was much better maintained than the descent from Lake Vivianne to Snow Lakes. It was 104 degrees in Leavenworth, so certainly wouldn't have wanted to be coming down any later.  We got back to the car bruised, bleeding, half-eaten by mosquitoes, and covered in dust and dirt, but what an incredible four days!!Definitely the best backpacking trip I have taken. The Enchantments are everything and more. I posted a link to my page below that has a lot more picture and a better understanding of our 4 day trip!We had a wonderful 3 day hike. Hiked to upper Snow lake and camped. The next day we hiked up to Perfection lake. It was stunningly beautiful. We encountered several mountain goats who were a little too curious and several times had too shoo them away. We watched a couple of osprey fishing and a few marmots peaking from the rocks.A dream come true. Still pinching myself. And my legs are still recovering.  Click on the link for the story and pictures.We decided to do the Stuart to Snow Lakes traverse in two days, so after parking at the Snow Lakes trailhead we were taken to the Stuart Lake trailhead by a nice guy from Leavenworth Shuttle. The route to Colchuck Lake and up Aasgard Pass was dry and very hot, with only some snow found at the top of the pass. Thinking that no ground campsites would be left when we reached the Upper Enchantments, we brought a shovel, but were fortunate to find the perfect spot by Isolation Lake. There were surprisingly few people camping in the area. The lakes still covered in snow for the most part. We could not do anything but admire the perfection in the valley: melting lakes, towering peaks and the best of all, mountain goats that are safe and free to roam around at their leisure among humans. In the morning we headed up the well-marked boot path on the Dragontail snowfield. We were a bit worried about the scramble to the summit, but it was actually very easy for us first-timers. At the top there was nothing but intimidating cliffs. Back at camp we packed everything and joined the booth path heading east and down. It was slow going. With the snow melting so fast, there were sketchy snow bridges all over the place. The zone that contains the middle and lower Enchantment Lakes is deceiving yet fascinating. Beautiful landscapes but also tricky route and crazy creek crossings. You have to trust the mighty cairns. The thing with them is that they mark the main trail but also side trails, so one can be lost for some time if the Toilet sign is missed. With the weight we ended up getting to our car at midnight, which is absolutely not recommended. My blog entry has more pictures, including a map of the route, and the full story at the link below.A group of four of us set out to do the thru hike from Stuart Lake trailhead to the Snow Lakes trailhead as a day hike. The road to the Stuart Lake trailhead wasn't in the best shape. We made it in our Subaru Legacy, but it was slow going. I wish we had brought our FJ Cruiser, as we would have made better time on the pot hole filled road.  Our friends truck had no problem.  After hearing that we shouldn't attempt the hike this early in the season due to possible dangerous icy conditions, three of us carried ice axes and spikes or crampons. After reading that the overnight low had been in the 40's in the Core Enchantments, I opted to leave mine behind to save weight. It turned out that neither were used.  We left the Stuart Lake trailhead at 5:20 am. The trail to Colchuck Lake was snow free, dry, and in great shape.  Going up Asgard Pass was about as much fun as I remember it. We mostly stayed on the rocks and weren't forced to travel on snow until just below the false summit. The only really tricky part was a traverse just below the false summit that is snow covered. The boot path in the snow was wide and stable. Just after the traverse we did a tiny bit of scrambling, which was only tricky because the rocks had some slushy snow and melting ice on them. After the false summit there were patches of snow, but you could pretty much stay on the rocks.  The Enchantment Lakes are still snowed in, with the lakes in various stages of melting out. There was a nice boot path in the snow all the way through. There were a couple short steep sections in the snow along the way, but the snow was so soft it was easy to plunge step down. We only had a few slips, and one of us glissaded the steepest short section. Near the end of the core section, I'm not sure which lake it is, the boot path went onto the melting lake along the shore. We opted to climb up an 8 foot rock wall instead of risking going onto the lake. Not too difficult.  Once we left the core, it was once again snow free. From there to the Snow Lakes trailhead there were a few places some of us used our hands to descend, but for the most part it's a rocky, but we'll maintained trail. There were a few downed trees that weren't hard to cross.  13 hours later, around 6:15, we were done. We travelled anywhere from 18 to 22 miles, depending on which website, guide book, or fellow hiker you consult.Snow lake trail head. Camped at Upper Snow & Headed to Vivienne. Beautiful weather, beautiful lakes. Swam in upper snow but Vivienne was still ICY. We didn't get in. Lots of goats, lots of people as was expected since we did this right before permit season. Will be back in the fall to see the colors change. <3We figured that memorial day weekend would be the perfect time to do some backpacking in the enchantments in the offseason without having to obtain a permit. We made it up to Nada Lake the first day and found a nice campsite. I think it took us nearly 4 hours to get there from the snow lakes trail with stops along the way. There were some bugs around that night but they weren't biting at all. The next day we quickly got up to snow lakes and kept on going up to lake Viviane, probably another 4 hours. We didn't really encounter much snow until we were very near to lake Viviane. For a lot of this section we were walking on granite boulders, which weren't the greatest to conquer in hiking boots. Once we reached lake Viviane almost everything was snow covered and a lot of the lake seemed frozen still. We were lucky enough to find two tent spots that weren't covered in snow. We wandered around to some more lakes in the snow. Could've used snow shoes but they weren't really necessary until you wanted to cross over a pass I think. There were quite a few mountain goats up there that didn't mind getting close, pretty awesome to see nature like that. Although, I'm sure they would remain more distant if they didn't like our pee so much. Definitely pee away from your campsite since the toilets seem to be snow covered up there. Everything is melting really fast though, so I'm sure they will be snow free soon enough. We hiked all the way back down Monday morning. Took us from 7:15 till 1:30 including breakfast and snack breaks. My legs are a bit jelly and I have about 6 blisters on my feet, but my 22 year old brother had no problem doing this hike. I would suggest bringing flexible tennis shoes for the steep stuff if your boots give you blisters.5 of us met up at my house in North Ballard on Friday the 15th at 3:30pm, we were on the road by 4. Hit traffic out of Seattle and into Monroe as we were headed toward Leavenworth and the Snow Lakes TH. If memory serves me right we set out from the TH at 7pm. The trail starts right off switch backs and elevation gain. The views were great looking up the icicle creek valley with the sun getting low to the west. Some of the group wanted to stop around sun down to make camp and some of the group wanted to push on to Nada lake, we ended up deciding to dawn head lamps and push on to nada lake with the overall strategy being that the farther we got Friday the night the farther we could Saturday and the more area we could explore. The day 1 stats turned out to be about 3700' gain, over 6.5 miles, it took us about 4 hrs so we stopped hiking at 11pm, set up camp in the dark and were asleep by midnight., we did take a lot of breaks, I think it could be done closer 3 hrs 15mins with less breaks. we all had about 40 lb packs give or take. Saturday morning we got up, filtered water from nada lake, made coffee, packed up camp and head onward and upward towards the enchantments core zone. we stopped on the far side of upper snow lake for a long break.  It took us abuot 3 hrs to get up to lake Viviane not including our break. I would say the hike from the trail head to upper snow lakes was rigorous, steep at times, plenty of switch backs but it wasn't hands on the hill steep. After Snow lakes and before Lake Viviane the ascent angle increases and in a few place you do need to use your hands to get up a steep section of rock. Also from the TH to upper snow lakes your feet are usually on dirt or broken rock, after snow lakes you get onto solid rock that is pretty steep in places, and care needs to be taken while on the rock. We set up camp at the near shore of lake Viviane, at the time of our hike it turned to solid snow right after we set up camp at lake Viviane. Once at our camp location we set up tents and three of us continued with like packs up to perfection lake where we sat by the snowed over lake and hung out. The three of us then went back to our camp at lake Viviane, taking special care not cross paths with the goat that was very interested in our pee locations. Sunday our plan was to head straight out to the snow lakes TH and be there by 2pm, so I figured it would take us 5 hrs to get there, we left camp about 8:30am. By 9am we were at dead stop inbetween Lake Viviane and Upper Snow Lake because one person in our party had slipped on the wet granite rock and sprained his knee bad (later we found out he tore his patella and chipped his knee cap). We rested for awhile and assessed the situation. He figured out he could walk on his knee with the help of is trekking poles so we distributed the weight of his bag among the other 4 of us and he continued downward with the help of his poles, moving very slowly. Myself and one other hiker ended up going ahead, we reached the TH at about 4:30, one other hiker in our group came out 6:45pm, and the injured hiker and the 5th hiker in our group camp out 7:45pm (Nearly 12 hrs after we had left camp that morning). Stats for Sunday were about 10miles of hiking and 5400' loss. Forecast had called for Thunder showers during the weekend but we never saw them. Only had a little fog and drizzle on Sunday. I really want to go back once the snow is all melted to see everything the upper enchantments has to offer.My hiking partner and I arrived at Colchuck Lake last Thursday as rain was lifting. Other hikers described large wet slides they had seen in the afternoon on Aasgard pass. We set up camp at Lake Colchuck and witnessed a beautiful alpine evening.  In the morning we started at the base of Aasgard Pass around 8:30am. This was too late, and the snow started to become sloppy by 10:30am, causing us to posthole the rest of the way to the top. Hikers should start at 6:30am or earlier, and if you are lucky it will have frozen the night before. This means you will have to break camp at Lake Colchuck around 5:30am.  Crampons and ice axe are still needed. I wish I had something more substantial than an ice axe because my axe handle completely sank in the soft snow. On the way up we crossed multiple slide areas from the day before, but our route at the time was mostly stable. Go climber left up the side of the tree grove and stay close to the grove and rocks for shelter and stability from wet slides. Hikers on facebook report that they caused an avalanche in the center corridor yesterday, to the right of the grove, and that conditions have deteriorated since our passage. We did not top the pass until well after noon, and were already tired. Just under the cornice the snow was thigh deep.  The entire Core Enchantments is snow covered, and with dark clouds rolling in over the upper lakes and our only having a tarp for shelter, we headed for lower ground. The lakes in the upper and lower Core were mostly frozen but not to the point we felt comfortable crossing them on foot. Exercise care around their perimeters. The first accessible water we found after the Aasgard Pass melt creek was Inspiration Lake, so fill up before crossing into the Core. We decided to hike through the Enchantments instead of back down Aasgard Pass because of the austerity and potential weather danger of the Upper Enchantments at this time of year.  We continued all the way to Upper Snow Lake to get out of the wind that evening, hiking the final portion by headlamp. The Upper Snow Lakes region is beautiful in its own, the lush old growth being a striking contrast to the desert austerity of the frozen Core Enchantments. The following day we hiked out to the Snow Lakes trailhead and hitchhiked up the hill back to our car. Had we known we would hike through, we would have parked at Snow Lakes and hitchhiked on the front end, earlier in the day.  Proceed up Aasgard at your own risk, and only if you feel comfortable assessing avalanche danger. I recommend taking a more substantial shelter than a tarp in case of injury above treeline.  I lost a blue glove on Aasgard Pass, maybe halfway up and all the way against the left wall, so if you are up that way as the snow melts and find it, please contact me. I don't recommend going that far left, however, as it necessitated that we cross another slide area that was somewhat sketchy.I hiked to Colchuck Lake Monday morning with intent to cross Aasgard Pass in the afternoon and stay two nights in the Core Enchantments. The walk to Colchuck was mostly easy, with a few patches of icy bootpack that required some care not to slip, and a few small trees down on the trail. There was no need for gaiters to get to Colchuck Lake on Monday or Tuesday. Mozzies were out at this elevation but not in high numbers. The Lake was frozen solid but melting; I would not be surprised if it is too sketchy now to cross on foot. I avoided a some areas as I crossed on Monday. Although several hikers had made quick work of Aasgard pass early in the morning, midday sun made my Monday attempt a masochistic affair. The pass is icy and hard in the early mornings, suitable for crampons and ice axe. By midday it turns soft enough that I post-holed many of my steps into thigh deep snow, even with snow shoes. The ice axe was useless; it would plunge under the surface and my hand and forearm would follow. Avalanche danger grew throughout the day from what I would describe as moderately low to moderately high. The walls on either side of the Aasgard pass regularly popped, cracked and rumbled as they dropped chunks of ice and rock. By the afternoon, this was forming some sustained snow rollers, and a couple man-sized rocks broke off the left side of the pass sliding toward me for perhaps twenty meters before stopping.  I was about 200 feet from the top of the pass when my legs started cramping badly from the hours of sloshy trudging. A couloir on the near side of Dragontail began an extended and accelerating shedding of ice that carried on for most of a minute, producing several rollers on the main slope, scaring me enough to wedge my ice axe into a fissure on the downhill side of a large boulder near me in case the snow gave way. The snow held, and I think pretty easily, but that was enough. I spent the next two hours carefully descending Aasgard Pass back to Colchuck Lake for the night. The slope was not firm enough to support buttocks glissading with any speed.  I slept in a stand of trees near the lake, under a newish moon and a beautiful canopy of stars. The pass rumbled most of the night. This quieted by around 3am, and by twilight the snow seemed hardened enough from the overnight freeze to try again if I got an early start, but my weakened legs convinced me otherwise, so I spent the day at Colchuck Lake before heading back to my car.  I think the pass has received more snow this week, which would heighten avalanche risk more. By all means, exercise extreme caution in the vicinity of Aasgard Pass. Crampons, an ice axe and an early morning start are a must, and I recommend proceeding only if avalanche risk is lower than it was for me.My girlfriend and I decided to take advantage of the glorious 70 degree and sunny forecasts and make our way through the Enchantment Lakes loop. After an early departure from Seattle we arrived at the Stuart Lake Trailhead on Friday morning around 9:00 am. To our pleasant surprise, Eightmile road was open, saving us a grueling 3.7 mile hike up 2000 feet of gain. The trail to Colchuck was easy to follow and became progressively more slippery as the trail became more and more icy with the elevation increase. We both took a spill or two on the way to Colchuck.  We arrived at Colchuck Lake around 12:00 and proceeded to have lunch. The view of Dragontail and frozen Colchuck lake as we came out onto a clearing was simply breathtaking.  We saw a couple of climbers making their way across the frozen lake while we ate. They had just climbed the triple couloirs and made their way down Asgard Pass. We asked about the snow conditions and they told us that the snow was very soft and was ripe for a wet slide if it got warm enough.  After we finished eating, we started to make our way across the lake, following the footprints of the two climbers. However, the mid day sun had definitely softened the ice quite a bit, forcing us to escape back up onto land and bush whack our way around the lake. We were able to get back onto the ice as we reached the far side of the lake, allowing us to avoid some super not fun scrambling through the talus field. We reached the base of Asgard pass around 2:00 PM and decided to try to head up the pass. After ascending only a few hundred feet, we encountered a very deep, steep, and slushy slope right below the patch of trees. The slushiness of the snow combined with the presence of rollers and a slightly concerning avalanche forecast from NWAC, we decided to turn around and set up camp for the night by the lake. We found a flat spot on snow among a few trees and were able to set up our camp and spend a chilly night out of the wind. There were plenty of trees to hang a bear bag. We had to melt snow for drinking water since we didn't find any easily accessible drinking water. We rested up for our morning attempt of Asgard pass. In the morning, we set out to go up Asgard pass before the sun hit it to minimize any avalanche risk. The snow started out as a firm crust with hard icy snow underneath and quickly turned into a rock hard ice slope as we ascended. We started our climb at 9:00 AM. I had mountaineering boots, crampons, and an ice axe, while my girlfriend had only regular hiking boots, micro spikes, and an ice axe. Because the snow was so hard, I had to kick out every single step for her to be able to get traction as we went up. This resulted in us having an extremely scary, exhausting, and somewhat soul crushing 3 hour ascent up Asgard. I HIGHLY recommend that anyone who attempts the pass in winter conditions have crampons and an ice axe. Furthermore, I do not recommend the pass for anyone who is not comfortable on steep snow and who does not have some mountaineering experience. Asgard ascends 2200 feet of sustained steep snow over avalanche prone terrain with additional rock and ice fall risk coming from the cliffs to your left as you go up. There are no spots to rest without being underneath the rock and ice fall hazards. At one point, a baseball sized rock whizzed down the slope, passing right between the two of us, while ice and small rocks were a continuous feature as the sun hit the cliffs. Quite honestly, helmets would have been completely appropriate for this section.  Around 12:00 PM, we made it up onto the much safer terrain about Asgard, where we stopped for photos and lunch. This was by far the most intense part of the trip. We were very much not prepared in terms of gear for this ascent and I very strongly encourage anyone who is attempting the pass in winter conditions to take it very seriously. Crampons are a necessity and it is advisable that you start heading up the pass much earlier than 9:00, as the sun starts hitting the slope and surrounding cliffs around 10:30. After lunch, we made our way up the final snowfield into the Enchantment Lakes Basin. We saw some climbers up on the snowfields near Dragontail's summit but otherwise we were the first people who made it up into that area since the new snow fall. The views were amazing and the experience of being alone in such a massive snowy landscape was surreal. We broke trail through snow that was just firm enough to not slow us down as we traveled East, using Prussik peak as the major landmark to navigate. We were able to follow the general trail through the basin, crossing over frozen lakes and glissading down some fantastic slopes. At one point we saw animal tracks that looked like they belonged to a medium sized mammal. We like to imagine that they were wolverine tracks :). We took our time, easily strolling across the frozen terrain all the way through the basin to Lake Viviane. Here we started our descent to the Snow Lakes. The trail descending from Lake Viviane to our ultimate campsite on Snow Lake was virtually non existent. We made our way down snowfields which eventually turned into rock and forest and resulted in some not so enjoyable bushwhacking. Eventually, we ran into another group who was headed up into the Enchantment Lakes basin. They also were having trouble finding a trail despite having a GPS but we were able to follow their footprints more or less down to the lake. It seems like this trail is just very difficult to follow. As you get closer, the trail becomes more obvious. There are lots of campsites on Snow Lake. We made it to our campsite around 7:00 PM and after eating and hanging our bear bag we were able to have a slightly more comfortable nights sleep down on the banks of Snow Lake. In the morning, we started hiking back to the Snow Lakes trail head. This trail is amazingly beautiful like the rest of the area but much, much easier to follow. It took us longer than expected to make our way back, due in part to the icy conditions on the trail. Along the way, we accidentally got perhaps a little too close to some mountain goats who were munching on some vegetation behind a rock adjacent to the trail. We saw a larger herd of these wonderful furry guys up on a hill to our right. At some point, one or both of us must have brushed up against some ticks, since we started finding them on our clothes. This is why I put the bug status as "bugs were not too bad". The total number we found probably was close to ten so this is definitely a concern for anyone hiking through here. Sunburned and haggard, we stumbled to the trial head around 2:30 PM on Sunday and thanks to the incredible kindness of some other folks who were in the area we were able to hitch a ride back up to our car at the Stuart Lake trail head, saving us roughly 8 miles of hiking and 2000 feet of gain.  If you are doing this trip in the early season, especially on the weekend after a big snow fall, make sure you take the following preparations:-Read avalanche forecasts and read up on how to spot potentially sketchy avalanche terrain. When in doubt, don't go out.-Have crampons and ice axes (for everyone in your group). Helmets would be very nice for Asgard pass as well. Also plan to get up Asgard pass before the sun starts to hit the slope around 10:00 or 10:30.-You will likely be camping on snow and might only have access to snow for drinking water. Prepare accordingly, bring extra fuel (we came very close to running out).-Print out tons of maps and trail descriptions. The more the better for getting down to Snow Lake. A GPS would be great as well.-Two cars will save you the stress of having to bum a ride back up to the Stuart Lake trailhead.-Be prepared to have one of the most incredible experiences of your entire life!! :DMy girlfriend and I decided to take advantage of the glorious 70 degree and sunny forecasts and make our way through the Enchantment Lakes loop. After an early departure from Seattle we arrived at the Stuart Lake Trailhead on Friday morning around 9:00 am. To our pleasant surprise, Eightmile road was open, saving us a grueling 3.7 mile hike up 2000 feet of gain. The trail to Colchuck was easy to follow and became progressively more slippery as the trail became more and more icy with the elevation increase. We both took a spill or two on the way to Colchuck.  We arrived at Colchuck Lake around 12:00 and proceeded to have lunch. The view of Dragontail and frozen Colchuck lake as we came out onto a clearing was simply breathtaking.  We saw a couple of climbers making their way across the frozen lake while we ate. They had just climbed the triple couloirs and made their way down Asgard Pass. We asked about the snow conditions and they told us that the snow was very soft and was ripe for a wet slide if it got warm enough.  After we finished eating, we started to make our way across the lake, following the footprints of the two climbers. However, the mid day sun had definitely softened the ice quite a bit, forcing us to escape back up onto land and bush whack our way around the lake. We were able to get back onto the ice as we reached the far side of the lake, allowing us to avoid some super not fun scrambling through the talus field. We reached the base of Asgard pass around 2:00 PM and decided to try to head up the pass. After ascending only a few hundred feet, we encountered a very deep, steep, and slushy slope right below the patch of trees. The slushiness of the snow combined with the presence of rollers and a slightly concerning avalanche forecast from NWAC, we decided to turn around and set up camp for the night by the lake. We found a flat spot on snow among a few trees and were able to set up our camp and spend a chilly night out of the wind. There were plenty of trees to hang a bear bag. We had to melt snow for drinking water since we didn't find any easily accessible drinking water. We rested up for our morning attempt of Asgard pass. In the morning, we set out to go up Asgard pass before the sun hit it to minimize any avalanche risk. The snow started out as a firm crust with hard icy snow underneath and quickly turned into a rock hard ice slope as we ascended. We started our climb at 9:00 AM. I had mountaineering boots, crampons, and an ice axe, while my girlfriend had only regular hiking boots, micro spikes, and an ice axe. Because the snow was so hard, I had to kick out every single step for her to be able to get traction as we went up. This resulted in us having an extremely scary, exhausting, and somewhat soul crushing 3 hour ascent up Asgard. I HIGHLY recommend that anyone who attempts the pass in winter conditions have crampons and an ice axe. Furthermore, I do not recommend the pass for anyone who is not comfortable on steep snow and who does not have some mountaineering experience. Asgard ascends 2200 feet of sustained steep snow over avalanche prone terrain with additional rock and ice fall risk coming from the cliffs to your left as you go up. There are no spots to rest without being underneath the rock and ice fall hazards. At one point, a baseball sized rock whizzed down the slope, passing right between the two of us, while ice and small rocks were a continuous feature as the sun hit the cliffs. Quite honestly, helmets would have been completely appropriate for this section.  Around 12:00 PM, we made it up onto the much safer terrain about Asgard, where we stopped for photos and lunch. This was by far the most intense part of the trip. We were very much not prepared in terms of gear for this ascent and I very strongly encourage anyone who is attempting the pass in winter conditions to take it very seriously. Crampons are a necessity and it is advisable that you start heading up the pass much earlier than 9:00, as the sun starts hitting the slope and surrounding cliffs around 10:30. After lunch, we made our way up the final snowfield into the Enchantment Lakes Basin. We saw some climbers up on the snowfields near Dragontail's summit but otherwise we were the first people who made it up into that area since the new snow fall. The views were amazing and the experience of being alone in such a massive snowy landscape was surreal. We broke trail through snow that was just firm enough to not slow us down as we traveled East, using Prussik peak as the major landmark to navigate. We were able to follow the general trail through the basin, crossing over frozen lakes and glissading down some fantastic slopes. At one point we saw animal tracks that looked like they belonged to a medium sized mammal. We like to imagine that they were wolverine tracks :). We took our time, easily strolling across the frozen terrain all the way through the basin to Lake Viviane. Here we started our descent to the Snow Lakes. The trail descending from Lake Viviane to our ultimate campsite on Snow Lake was virtually non existent. We made our way down snowfields which eventually turned into rock and forest and resulted in some not so enjoyable bushwhacking. Eventually, we ran into another group who was headed up into the Enchantment Lakes basin. They also were having trouble finding a trail despite having a GPS but we were able to follow their footprints more or less down to the lake. It seems like this trail is just very difficult to follow. As you get closer, the trail becomes more obvious. There are lots of campsites on Snow Lake. We made it to our campsite around 7:00 PM and after eating and hanging our bear bag we were able to have a slightly more comfortable nights sleep down on the banks of Snow Lake. In the morning, we started hiking back to the Snow Lakes trail head. This trail is amazingly beautiful like the rest of the area but much, much easier to follow. It took us longer than expected to make our way back, due in part to the icy conditions on the trail. Along the way, we accidentally got perhaps a little too close to some mountain goats who were munching on some vegetation behind a rock adjacent to the trail. We saw a larger herd of these wonderful furry guys up on a hill to our right. At some point, one or both of us must have brushed up against some ticks, since we started finding them on our clothes. This is why I put the bug status as "bugs were not too bad". The total number we found probably was close to ten so this is definitely a concern for anyone hiking through here. Sunburned and haggard, we stumbled to the trial head around 2:30 PM on Sunday and thanks to the incredible kindness of some other folks who were in the area we were able to hitch a ride back up to our car at the Stuart Lake trail head, saving us roughly 8 miles of hiking and 2000 feet of gain.  If you are doing this trip in the early season, especially on the weekend after a big snow fall, make sure you take the following preparations:-Read avalanche forecasts and read up on how to spot potentially sketchy avalanche terrain. When in doubt, don't go out.-Have crampons and ice axes (for everyone in your group). Helmets would be very nice for Asgard pass as well. Also plan to get up Asgard pass before the sun starts to hit the slope around 10:00 or 10:30.-You will likely be camping on snow and might only have access to snow for drinking water. Prepare accordingly, bring extra fuel (we came very close to running out).-Print out tons of maps and trail descriptions. The more the better for getting down to Snow Lake. A GPS would be great as well.-Two cars will save you the stress of having to bum a ride back up to the Stuart Lake trailhead.-Be prepared to have one of the most incredible experiences of your entire life!! :DI'm Daniel, a 17 year old Boy Scout in Leavenworth Troop 19.  Last Wednesday me and two of my younger brothers headed up into the Enchantments.  My pack was a solid 50lbs.  We brought cross-country skis w/ boots, as well as mountaineering gear (crampons, rope, harnesses, ice axes).  We reached the closed gate for the road to the Stuart Lake Trailhead @ 7am.  We hiked the road to the trailhead.  There were patches of snow, compacted and simple to walk on, toward the last 2 miles.  We started up Stuart Lake Trail before 9am.  Though the trail was often snow-covered, and at times slippery, I never slipped once the whole way up to Colchuck Lake.  We crossed the lake after testing the ice with our axes.  At the other side we donned our crampons and began climbing the left side of Asgard Pass.  We never roped up, though there was a sketchy area where we were blocked out by a frozen waterfall structure.  We entered the Enchantments at 5pm and skied to our campsite from the previous year:  a spot along a small ridge that comes down from the north by Isolation Lake.  We later skied up Enchantment Peak to try and call home, but nothing worked.  We saw two guys coming down Dragontail.  Beautiful stars.  It gets dark by about 8:20pm.      The next day we got up early (5am), ate, and started up Dragontail with all our climbing gear.  Nobody slipped or anything, but the rope was comforting.  We also got to practice belaying from our ice axes over a 30ft snow-drift.  Fun stuff!  We crossed the saddle and made the final ascent.  It was quite icy toward the top, and only a thin layer of snow/ice had managed to remain on the slope due to the fierce wind.  Amazing views at the top!  Mount Rainier, and others.  We descended back below the saddle and then glissaded the rest of the way.       It was very windy back at camp and we were worried about our tent.  While building a wall of snow-bricks around it, a particularly powerful gust came along and snapped one of the poles.  We improvised to keep it from poking a hole it the tent, and finished our wall.  Feel free to use it, it's about 5ft tall.  We then put our skis on and I loaded our climbing gear into my empty pack, and we skied over to a pass overlooking Shield Lake (4 miles?)  We changed to our climbing gear and left the skis and pack.  We traversed the north face of The Temple for maybe a mile or two till we reached the area we recognized from Google Earth as where we would make our final climb.  We took turns anchoring while others would climb, and we reached the saddle at about 5:30pm.  We were able to call home and assure Mom we were alive.  Even sent some pics.  We then began our race against daylight back to camp, and made it back at 8:07pm.  By this time our stove was having serious problems.  It is a jet boil, but it wouldn't "jet".   We ate crunchy beef stroganoff, lasagna, and Mexican rice.        The next morning we broke camp and started down Asgard Pass at about 10:00am.  Heading down was easy, but a bit scary at times.  We crossed paths with two day-snowshoeers toward the bottom.  We followed their tracks down to the lake.  We crossed the Lake Colchuck and jogged much of the way down to the trailhead.  We made it home by 5pm, where we ate anything and everything.  Amazing trip.  Perfect conditions.  Recommend this to anyone with winter survival skills as well as general hiking know-how.5 of us met up at my house in North Ballard on Friday the 15th at 3:30pm, we were on the road by 4. Hit traffic out of Seattle and into Monroe as we were headed toward Leavenworth and the Snow Lakes TH. If memory serves me right we set out from the TH at 7pm. The trail starts right off switch backs and elevation gain. The views were great looking up the icicle creek valley with the sun getting low to the west. Some of the group wanted to stop around sun down to make camp and some of the group wanted to push on to Nada lake, we ended up deciding to dawn head lamps and push on to nada lake with the overall strategy being that the farther we got Friday the night the farther we could Saturday and the more area we could explore. The day 1 stats turned out to be about 3700' gain, over 6.5 miles, it took us about 4 hrs, we did take a lot of breaks, I think it could be done closer 3 hrs 15mins with less breaks. we all had about 40 lb packs give or take. Saturday morning we got up, filtered water from nada lake, made coffee, packed up camp and head onward and upward towards the enchantments core zone. we stopped on the far side of upper snow lake for a long break. it took us abuot 3 hrs to get up to lake Viviane not including our break, we set up camp at the near shore of lake Viviane, at the time of our hike it turned to solid snow right after we set up camp at lake Viviane. Once at our camp location we set up tents and three of us continued with like packs up to perfection lake where we sat by the snowed over lake and hung out. The three of us then went back to our camp at lake Viviane, taking special care not cross paths with the goat that was very interested in our pee locations. Sunday our plan was to head straight out to the snow lakes TH and be there by 2pm, so I figured it would take us 5 hrs to get there, we left camp about 8:30am. By 9am we were at dead stop inbetween Lake Viviane and Upper Snow Lake because one person in our part had slipped on the wet granite rock and sprained his knee bad. We rested for awhile, distributed the weight of his bag among the other 4 of us and he continued downward with the help of his poles, moving very slowly. Myself and one other hiker ended up going ahead, we reached the TH at about 4:30, one other hiker in our group came out 6:45pm, and the injured hiker and the 5th hiker in our group camp out 7:45pm (Nearly 12 hrs after we had left camp that morning). Stats for Sunday were about 10miles of hiking and 5400' loss. Forecast had called for Thunder showers during the weekend but we never saw them. Only had a little fog and drizzle on Sunday. I really want to go back once the snow is all melted to see everything the upper enchantments has to offer.Our day hike began at the snow lake trailhead around 9:15am.  It was cold in the morning but we were quickly down to just hiking pants and a thin long sleeve shirt.  About an hour in Microspikes were necessary, the trail was very icey. The hike itself has pretty consistent grade (similar to Si) for the first 5 - 6 miles but the scenery is so beautiful you hardly notice! We made it to the end of Snow lake before breaking for lunch and enjoying the surrounding peaks.  I would highly recommend this hike and am very glad our low snow season has made hikes like this possible so early in the year!only posting to report a found microfiber blanket on the way down from colchuck. message me if its yours with some details, Im in seattleWe arrived Wednesday night to camp out at Eightmile and hit the Stuart Lake trail head Thursday morning.  Snow and rain were in the forecast and we knew it.  Just the two of us headed out, and only saw two others on the way headed also up Aasgard.  The plan was to camp in the upper basin near the overlook for Perfection Lake.  We made it, after a full 8 hours of hiking, plus lots of stopping to eat and photo.   Aasgard was full of snow, I used microspikes which helped, except when they slipped around my boot.  Hiking poles were also helpful.  We ended up hiking the upper basin in the dark, with patches of deep snow. Trail-finding was okay, we got off track a bit but a little memory and a few cairns marked the way. The first night was freezing and snowy, the next day was heavy wet snow, which later turned into rain.  It was a mess.  Having a tarp for a cooking/eating shelter helped a bunch.  The mice were very aggressive, they would run into our packs while we were preparing dinner, at least this one did. Saturday morning we woke up to about 4 inches of water around our tent.  We were practically floating and it was nasty outside.  We packed up camp, my buddy headed out back down Aasgard, and I stayed one more night and day, knowing the weather would improve.  The latest from NOAA radio confirmed this. Saturday turned into a great day, it cleared, and tons of people started coming in.  I finally saw a sunrise on Sunday morning and had clear skies for some great photography on the way out. Having good gear was important - Arc'teryx and goretex from head to toe kept me dry and warm.  The Nemo tent though small didn't let any water in despite waking up in a small lake. I'm still processing the photos but found some great shots along the way out.Headed out to the Enchantments this weekend hoping to get one last excursion in ahead of the snow...but we were one day too late! Arrived the night before and heard a harrowing tale of day hikers getting stuck in a blizzard, but the forecast looked good so we decided to attempt despite some concerns about snow/ice/cold.  The plan was to trail run/speed hiker the 20.5 mile stretch from the Stuart Lake Trailhead down to the Snow Lakes. Started at 7:30 AM, made it quickly up to Colchuck were climbing Aasgard by 9:00. Things got trickier when we hit the snow line around 6,500-7,000 ft. There wasn't much accumulation but the ice was enough to make things treacherous. Was glad to be going up and not down.  The Enchantments are gorgeous with a fresh coat of snow and it was easy enough to find the trail. It was too slippery to run, but it was nice to go slower and enjoy the view. The larches are winding down but still look nice and we saw a lone mountain goat. The snow disappeared by Lake Viviane and we picked up the pace heading down...perhaps too fast since I tripped and scraped my hip/knee.  Made it to the Snow Lakes trailhead at 2:45 and biked back to retrieve the car. Definitely not one to miss...if you can't get a permit, do the speed hike in a day! It's much faster without having to carry all that gear.Gods must be crazy. How do you create crystal clear lakes that reflect perpetually snow caped rocky peaks midst gorgeous hues of green pines, yellow larches, orange devil's clubs? Add to it a light choreography of elusive sunshine beaming through sneaky and fickle stratus clouds and make it really hard to get to this heavenly amphitheater, which makes you wanna go there even more! When we won the lottery to enchantments around six months ago, we did something that every naive and newbie backpacker does. Look at the distance - 18 miles, compare it with your day hiking experience and call it a little harder than day hiking and then decide to do the whole trail in two days including six hours of driving to and fro. As we got closer to the date of permit - Oct 11 weekend; we started realizing the flaws in our thinking and we started looking for alternatives. Don't get me wrong - it is still doable in 2 days and a night; as long as you are ready for a long hard day, have enchantment region permit and the weather is absolutely in your favor. Unfortunately we had snow lake permit and forecast showed rain/snow forecast (Early in October?!). After thousand phone calls and scouring through web for alternatives; we decided to make a tight plan, brace ourselves and just give it a go. Leaving really early in the morning (more like middle of the night) from Seattle,  we reached snow creek trailhead (entry to snow lake) around 6 AM. We were met with clear dark skies with million stars! Looking at this, we laughed at the stupidity of mountain weather forecasts and started from Stuart/Colchuck lake trailhead to knock out the hard part of the trail on day one. However the moment we started heading up to Colchuck lake, we realized this is going to be tough. As we were admiring the beauty of the surroundings - clear and white water streams, fall colors, bunch of boulders and beautifully carved wooden foot bridges; we realized that we don't have a choice but to move fast, if not faster. As we reached Colchuck lake, we got a preview of what is up there beyond the intimidating Aasgard pass guarding the entrance to enchantment lakes. Unfortunately we also realized, that despite our best efforts it would be well past the sundown if and when we reach snow lake region to camp overnight. Around the same time, weather gods decided to play a cruel joke and decided to stick to the scripted forecast. It all started with occasional droplets midst sun shining through the clouds just before the noon. At this point, half the group decided to turn back and rest decided to give the best try possible. The moment we left for Aasgard pass, sun started beaming again and we put back rain jackets. As a sweet revenge for not taking them seriously; clouds decided to pour a minute after we smeared our faces with sunscreen. As we stumbled through the hardest boulder field so far (between Colchuck lake and base of Aasgard pass); wind brought sideways rain too. Despite all this, we were all quite dry inside and seemed quite ready for the wet weather. However, as we braved through the first quarter of Aasgard pass; rain turned into slush and foggy top of the pass began accumulating fresh snow! We realized that nobody around us is going upwards anymore. At this point almost all of us were somewhat wet and some were starting to get cold. Even if we had gotten get past Aasgard pass, we were not well equipped to spend a night under cold weather through snow, wind and hails. Deciding to abandon our efforts, we turn back slowly and steadily. Heading back, we profusely cursed the sideways rain and stubborn boulders that stood in our way. However as we came back to our lunch spot around three hours later; we realized the mesmerizing part of the trip wasn't the yellow and glowing larches, glacial and clear lakes and grand granite rocks; but the fact that we saw three different seasons in six hours. First we saw early morning fall hues highlighting the trail and mountains. Then we saw sun and clouds playing light-and-shadow game over shimmering Colchuck and rugged Aasgard pass. It all crescendoed into fresh winter snow that covered the top one third of the pass! We were just happy that we gave our best try and kept going until it wasn't stupid yet and turned back only when weather made it impractical to keep going. The way back through Colchuck pass seemed really long with heavy backpacks. Our hands were occasionally cold, shoes were dipping in newly formed potholes. We saw previously flat campsites now floating in foliage over accumulated water. We made it back to the trailhead just after the sunset and headed to Leavenworth to catch glimpses of Oktoberfest over hot latte, seasonal brews and tasty bratwursts! All in all, it was quite an eventful day! Even though our backpacking trip had to end abruptly, we got first-hand taste of beauty, elusiveness, exclusivity and brutality of the enchantments. As we were laughing hard recounting the stupid moments when we smudged our faces with warpaint sunscreen and it started pouring, hailing and snowing minutes after; we already knew we were going to come back this wonderland next year! Link to post: http://sankalpshere.blogspot.com/2014/10/enchantments.htmlHiA buddy and I went backpacking for the first time at the Enchantments a couple weeks ago.  Great trip! We hiked up to and stayed at the upper snow lake the first night.   On day 2, we did a day hike from our snow lake camp (where we had the permit), visiting the lower lakes and gnome tarn.  The trail up from snow lake was quite steep, would be challenging with a backpack.  Heading back to camp after photos at sunset was also definitely not an option.     We were going to do a 4 day trip, but on day 3 headed back to the trailhead due to shifting weather.  Glad we did because it started raining like crazy the last hour of the hike back.   We met a lot of great people on the trail, the larches were looking great, the landscape was fantastic!  Great trip can't wait to go back!Be aware, this trail is 21.7miles from my Garmin GPS, it's not 18miles mentioned in the WTA. The view is fantastic from Colchuck lake to Lake vivian, but then it's really boring to Snow Lakes TH (~10miles)... This is my second time here, if I would do it the 3rd time, I would go back after reaching Lake vivian...Woke up at about 3:00 am. Then drove to Leavenworth. Arrived at the Snow Lake parking lot at 6:30 am. left one car at Snow Lake lot and then drove in a second to the Colchuck lot. Decided earlier in the year that weather permitting we would do a through hike. None of us had climbed Asgard and wanted to access its feasibility to get to the core with loaded packs for overnight camping. The climb to Colchuck Lake was not difficult. Asgard was a different story. The trail at the far end of the lake wanders through a large boulder field that would be a challenge with a fully loaded pack. Asgard would be very difficult due to the steepness and loose rock. I was challenged with a 20 lb pack 50lbs would be a bear. Our group was all in their late 50's  and thought it would be better suited for younger hikers after we completed the climb. It took us a little over 4 hours to get to the Upper Enchantments. I slowed our group as I cramped on the last 1/3 of Asgard. Loaded up on Nuun and stopped the cramping after a couple of hours. The fall colors were spectacular and a lot less hikers compared our 4 day stay a couple if weeks ago. As usual took pictures including a beer shots. I would highly recommend a hike this time of year to the Enchantments to witness the fall colors. The Larch were spectacular and peaking now. We had 2 GPS's which indicated the hike was close to 22 miles. Wonder who came up with the 18 miles (we stayed on the trail. The total time was 11 hours an 30 minutes. We got out before dark. But saw many head lamps on the trail upon our return from the Colchuck lot. Glad we did this!!! Went to Leavenworth for the traditional brats an beer celebration. Got back home about midnight. Job well done boys!!!!!!!!!The Enchantments Traverse.Connects Stuart Lake trail head to Snow Creek trail head crossing this magical alpine paradise in a day. Fall is an excellent time to catch the changing colors like the fiery larch.   Shuttle a second vehicle to the Stuart Lake trail head. Ascend along Mountaineer Creek taking a left to climb more directly into the Colchuck Lake basin (a coveted and heavily permitted camping destination). The trail winds around the south side of the lake on talus fields below Colechuck and Dragontail peaks. The climb starts at the far side of the lake, the most difficult section of the trail up Aasgard pass.Cool clear days with no bugs can make the fall a great time of year in the Enchantments.Reach the highest elevation of the on top of Aasgard Pass at nearly 8,000 feet. Behold views to the west of Glacier Peak and the Central Cascades before dropping down into the upper Enchantments lakes. This is a magical place with high alpine lakes and tarns, connected by picturesque streams and waterfalls. Enchanting indeed. On open winding trails Pass by Lakes named after mythical creatures. From Lake Viviane below Prusik Peak drop down some steeper terrain with delicate footing.Meander along the Snow Lakes for the long gradual decent along snow creek, Pass by Snow Creek Wall to the Snow Creek parking lot where the shuttle car is waiting.Set out to find some fall color and larches.  Won the walk up permit drawing, interfaced with the cranky permit lady (she reminds me of the accountant from Monsters Inc.)  and quickly organized into a party of 8.  I'd like to provide one of those butterflies and rainbows trip reports where everything is wonderful but seriously, this hike is a slog.  I got my pack weight down to 28 lbs including a bottle of Pyramid Oktoberfest.  My ten degree sleeping bag weighed 1.5 lbs.  My pack was 3.  My tent was a Shires Tarptent weighing 1.6 lbs.  I planned on eating peanut butter and honey sandwiches.  I carried a liter of water, planning on filtering more as I went along.  That being said, its a long hard hike, each step contemplated carefully so as not to trip/fall/slide/tumble etc.  Lots of hydration, sweat, aches, thoughts of anything other than how my thighs felt.  Reaching the top of Asgaard, I didn't have some wonderful revelation of otherworldly beauty, instead more real thoughts of cramps, observations of desolate granite and an eye on the watch to be sure to reach Leprechaun before dark.  Ran into some guys camping right on the trail above Inspiration.  Really?  So many awesome spots nearby.  Oh well. Got up early for sunrise and got some great photos.  Decided to leave via Snow Lakes despite having to arrange a ride back to Stuart where my car was.  I never seem to want to visit Asgaard twice in one hike.  I cant imagine why.  Many in my party had never been to the Enchantments before so that was fun to show them around.  But their whining about suffering and how they were getting old was tiring as they were half my age  :)  Cliff Notes:  Decided to go in via Colchuck and Asgaard, camp near Leprechaun Lake and then down via Snow Lakes.  Colors are looking great and weather is awesome.  Made seven new friends along the way and had a great time.  Lots of Aleve and Advil recommended.  Once you've seen this, you cant stay away.My buddy Jake and I left downtown Seattle at 4:45 am so we could make it to the Leavenworth Ranger Station by 7:45.   We wanted to win the first come first serve Core Enchantments Permit, but we won the Snow Lakes permit instead.  Left the trailhead around 8:30 am and made the 9 mile trip to Upper Snow Lake in about 3 hours.  Spent the rest of the day lounging in the sun, going to bed around 7pm when it got dark and started to get cold.   We were up around 730am the next morning and left for the Enchantments area with only our daypacks, leaving our tent and supplies behind.  Hiked the 4.5 miles through the enchantments up to the base of Aasgard pass.  Larches were changing color, mountain goats everywhere including 2 baby goats.  We left the base of Aasgard pass around 12 and made it back to upper snow lake around 230pm, then back down to the car by 545pm.  28 miles of hiking in less than 36 hrs.  Would do it againMy second visit to the Enchantments. Both at larch time. First time down Aasgard Pass. It is a knee pounder with a backpacking pack. We had good weather and good larch trees. Some were still green but a lot were golden. I have a much longer trip report on my site with one page of text and photos for each day. Well over 100 annotated photos in all. Start with #1 and keep hitting "Next" to scroll through. A link to the report is after the photos below.The fabled Enchantment Lakes really are as magical as they are hyped up to be, and autumn really is a special time to visit them! Our happy band of six hikers had been anticipating this 4-day hike all year, ever since our birthday girl won the lottery this winter.  Most of us used that as a great motivation to hike and cross-train ourselves into awesome condition by September, and I know that I don't regret a single mile that I hiked or ran to get ready for this hike.  The Enchantments are not easy, but they are worth it!  And along the way, I've seen 250 miles of other trails this year as well!  A year well-spent, and it's not over yet! Good news: the larches are turning!  At the lower elevations they were still summer-green, but the higher we climbed, the color gradually changed into a lime green, then a lime yellow, and near the tree line, yellow!  That lime green paired with the emerald and aqua lakes was simply stunning.  Psychedelic.  Surreal.  A true Dr. Seuss landscape.  Needless to say, we loved every step!  And we completely lucked out on the weather, as it was sunny the whole time until our very last morning, when we encountered light rain. Our itinerary:  Our permit was for three nights at Snow Lakes.  We had initially planned to hike to the far side of Upper Snow Lake on day 1, spend days 2 & 3 day hiking in the core, and then hike out from Snow Lakes on day 4.  Things didn't quite go as planned, but it was still amazing. Day 1:  The first half of our group slept at the trailhead the night prior and got an 8:45 am start up from the Snow Lakes trailhead. Fall colors were just starting to reveal themselves along Snow Creek.  We agreed we were psychologically prepared for the alleged "grueling" trail to be harder than we ultimately found it. We made good time and arrived at Snow Lakes in the early afternoon.  The other half of our group left Seattle that morning and caught up to us a few hours later at camp.  Our plan was to go as far around Upper Snow Lake as possible before making camp so that we'd be as close to the core as possible.  This is exactly what we did, and we found a nice large campsite on the far side along the banks of the lake.  What we didn't realize is that Upper Snow Lake is actually a reservoir, and the lake is currently very, very low.  So it wasn't the scenic alpine lake campsite we envisioned, but it was still pretty in another way, and still well-situated for our base-camp.  However, if I were do it it again, I'd opt for a campsite back at Lower Snow Lake.  It would add maybe 3/4 mile each way to the Enchantments core, but they are flat/easy miles, and Lower Snow Lake is the prettier of the two right now.  Temps:  low 70's in the day, down to 38 at night at Snow Lake. Day 2:  The Enchantments Core and Little Annapurna!  Up up up...and it just gets better and better and better.  The trail from Snow Lakes onward is confusing in places, as it crosses long stretch of steep rock where the trail isn't obvious, but helpful cairns mark the way.  We were happy to be carrying only day packs for this stretch. Then, bam!  Lake Viviane, the first of the Enchantments Lakes, and what a beauty!  From here on, the larches were gradually shifting towards their fall colors, and the scenery just keeps getting better, weirder, and more interesting.  Stunning lakes of various blues and greens, shrubs and foliage taking on their autumn oranges, yellows, and reds, and larches lime!  We meandered through all of the core taking pictures and being in awe of everything. As we neared Little Annapurna, we all agreed that a peak was in order, so we scrambled up and up and oh, wow...the cliffs up there are visceral.  I know that gravity doesn't actually pull horizontally, but it sure feels that way!  Epic views in every direction.  By this point it was late afternoon and we were not excited to descend to Snow Lakes in the dusk, so we made haste in retreating back through the core and on down to camp before sunset, planning to be back the next day for either some lazy lakeside meanderings, more photo ops, or another peak.  Temps:  Upper 60's in the core but sunny, low 40's at night at Snow Lake. Day 3:  Unfortunately, our hasty retreat on day 2 left our permit holder and birthday girl with blistered feet, so rather than returning to the core as planned, we decided to pack up camp and move down to Nada Lake for an afternoon of swimming and hanging out in a very pretty spot.  We all agreed that Nada Lake was more scenic than Snow Lakes, and that splitting the hike down into two days would be easier than going all the way out in one day with blisters.  We camped along the creek outlet of Nada Lake, swam in the afternoon, and slept under the stars.  Fortunately the weather behaved most of the night, though we were all abruptly awoken at 7am by raindrops.  Temp:  Low 70's in the day, sunny, and 50 at night at Nada Lake. Day 4:  Raindrops at 7am caused us all to rapidly pack and hit the trail (half of the group hadn't pitched tents, and most of us were sleeping under the stars.)  The rain actually stopped for most of our hike out, though it started raining just as we arrived at the trailhead 2 hours and 15 minutes after leaving Nada Lake.  Thunder greeted us, too!  We were grateful that we were on our way out, not in.  We can't believe our luck in the weather!  I think that the fall colors were already more pronounced along Snow Creek than they had been just 4 days earlier.  The trailhead also greeted our birthday girl with cake and candles, followed by lunch in Leavenworth. Temp: overcast and low 60's. All in all:  bliss!  We loved it!  We'll be back! Lessons learned:~All the training and hiking earlier in the year paid off.  We agreed we *could* have made it up without training, but being fit and ready made it 100% enjoyable, rather than a trial.~Hold out for the core permit!  We all really, really wanted to be camping in the core.  Next time!~We will probably enter via Colchuck Lake next time, and exit via Snow Lakes (personal preference).~Break in your shoes well before taking on such an intense hike.~Upper Snow Lakes is a reservoir and not the scenic alpine lake we expected.  Next time we'll camp at Nada Lake or Lower Snow Lake, or go all the way in or out of the core in one day instead.~Autumn is magical!  We may try for 1 week later next time for slightly more larch-changing action.This was my second time doing the loop, but this time in perfect summer weather in September!  The trail was easy to follow and lots of mountain goats!  No snow and ice this time.  All I can say is, if you're ever thinking of going Snow Lake to Stuart...DON'T!  The views are much better if you start at Stuart.  Also, Aasgard is not as scary as most people make it out to be, it's just long but totally doable.  We camped at Eightmile campground the night and before and hiked up the next morning, spending 1 night at Isolation Lake and the second night at Snow Lakes.  I wish I could've stayed longer and spend more time at Upper and exploring the different peaks though.  If you ever have the opportunity to be invited along with a person with a permit, DO IT!This is the second time that we have visited The Enchantments. We were lucky enough to get a Snow Lake permit in the lottery but tried to get a core permit  the morning of our departure. We were unsuccessful. Reached the trail head at 9:00 am and took our time to the far side of Upper Snow Lake.The trail was cool which helped on our 6 hour journey. We were extremely lucky for the weather was perfect. Each journey to the basin was sunny and warm. We took a lot of pictures including some classic beer shots. Tank tops were plentiful and even a few nudists jumping into the lakes.  Lots of cold weather squeals were heard as we explored the many lakes, reaching Asgard Pass on our third day. Would like to spend a week in the core for there is so much to see. The larches are beginning to change although not at their peak which I would expect in a couple of weeks. As on the last trip our fellow hikers were great to be around. There were and abundance of through hikers on Saturday.  Quite a few in the upper basin about 4:00 pm. Hope they all had headlamps.  Headed out about 10:00am on Sunday and were in our cars about 2:00pm. As usual we celebrated our journey in Leavenworth eating bratwurst  and drinking beer.I anticipated a long day, so I left my home in Kirkland at 4:40 am. I decided to take I90 and then over Blewett Pass route to Leavenworth instead of Highway 2 / Stevens Pass. I arrived at the trailhead @ 7:30 and on the trail @ 7:40. I was surprised that it took me so long. I did stop at the Leavenworth Safeway to top off the fuel tank and prior to that, one brief moment in CleElum. Once over Blewett Pass and down the other side, its only a 4 mile backtrack to Leavenworth. I figured time spent driving I90 vs Stevens, would have been a wash. The dirt road up to the trailhead is a rough and slow drive. I wanted to start hiking at 6:30 so that I could spend more time in the Enchantment basin. Long winded explanation but don't underestimate your travel time. The outside temperature gauge for my truck was reading 36 degrees through CleElum and that was the reason for the brief stop there. I wanted to get out and feel the air temperature for myself. It was definitely 36 degrees and at that point I was regretting for not packing a additional layer. Worry was for nothing. A comfortable 50 degrees at the trailhead and at 3 miles in, I was shedding my windbreaker and down to my single layer short sleeved shirt. Forecast was for mid 80's in Leavenworth and clear. I arrived at Colchuck Lake  ( 4.1miles ) at 9:30 and at the base of Aasgard Pass at 10:00. I really enjoyed the trail to Colchuck. It's well maintained but above that, a hiker is serenaded by cascading water almost the entire way to Colchuck. There were just a couple of spots along the trail where I could not hear the creek water. Don't miss the trail turnoff to Colchuck Lake at 2.3 miles. There are a few steep, stair step sections on the way to Colchuck but nothing thats extremely difficult or strenuous. The trail continues along the shore of Colchuck and leads you to a large boulder field. Pick you way through the boulder field to the base of Aasgard pass. Stop, look around and take notice of the cairns. Basically its "connect the dots". Definatley follow this rule up Aasgard Pass as there are many off shoot trails near the bottom. Most of those off shoot trails go to the right ( I think hikers use them to fill water as that's where the flowing water is ) and you want to stay left. Aasgard Pass. Its lives up to its reputation. Looking up, its hard to imagine there actually exists a trail. It took me 4 hrs to reach the top of Aasgard Pass from the trailhead. As I mentioned above, I was at the base of Aasgard at 10:00 and arrived at the top just before noon. Ug! Steep and a lot of loose material. I was actually pretty concerned about the descent knowing that this was going to be my way back home. Foot placement and concentration is key here. Approximately half way up the trail, I hear, " youuu're haaaaalf waaay theeeere". Its a female voice but I see nobody. I am only one of 4 male hikers ( separate group ) heading up Aasgard this morning. I hear it again. The entire valley echo's and its impossible to determine where the voice originates. My head moving around looking like a baseball bobblehead.  I hear her yell it a third time. I look up, way up, and to my left. She is perched on a vertical cliff face several hundred feet up. I wave and she responds with the same. I got the feeling she was being more of a prankster then a informational navigator. She's up there chuckling mess'n with the hikers as they all try to determine where in the hell that female voice is coming from. She's yelling that I'm half way there and I wish I would have yelled " I'm closer to the top then you are", cuz I was. She had a long way to go. In summary, it was amusing and I was impressed by her and her support partner's bravery, courage and motivation. When you crest the lip of Aasgard.... I can't explain it... I won't even attempt... you have to experience it for yourself.  I spent 90 minutes in the basin hiking and exploring before heading back. I psyched myself out concerned about the Aasgard Pass descent. It wasn't as bad as I imagined it was going to be. The climbers were still on the cliff face making steady pace upward. I paused on the trail to watch and the female climbers partner noticed me I guess. He waved and I responded with the same. I continued down with accurate and decisive foot placement. One small slip is all I had. Photo opportunities. The sun was high in the sky in the Enchantment Lakes Basin which made for extremely poor photo opportunities. Morning and Evening opportunities for the overnight campers  (unless you are going to hike in or out in the dark ) or on cloudy or semi overcast days would be heavenly. Down at the base of Aasgard and Colchuck lake are better opportunities no matter the light. Colchuck reflects beautifully and the mountains cast sharp crisp shadows. I lucked out with some forest fire smoke haze. 15.06 miles in 9 hours and 54 minutes and I was back to my vehicle.  Will I go back? Yes! The beauty, and, challenge make it funOur permit was for Colchuck Lake, starting on the second Friday of September. The plan was to sleep as close to Aasgard Pass as possible to enjoy most of Saturday on the upper enchantments, and hike out on Sunday. Given that this area is full of high peaks, we were ready to scramble up Little Annapurna and Dragontail, which are very close to each other. This is how it went: The forecast for the weekend could not have been sunnier, but perhaps a little bit less cold. We started hiking from the Stuart Lake trailhead at 11am and traversed what seemed like a very long approach. We  hiked all around the lake until we reached the beach located at the base of Aasgard Pass, which in our opinion is the absolute best camping spot around the lake. The views are great and Aasgard Pass is right there for you.On Saturday we explored the upper enchantments and walked to the summit of Little Annapurna, an addition to our Bulger achievement list. We did not have time to scramble Dragontail, but we'll be back soon.Instead of staying another night we packed everything out and headed back to the trailhead. We were beyond exhausted.Full report with narrated pictures is available here:http://amazedbylife.com/2014/09/18/enchantment-basin-1-0/Day thru hike. Had an amazing time, but it is grueling towards the end. Went in at Colchuck and out at Snow Lake. Aasgard took about two hours to climb, not too bad. Saw a lot of goats, probably 10 total. It takes about 14 hours, so you'll be hiking in the dark either at the beginning or the end: bring headlamps! No bugs, no mud, very little snow, and low water levels. The road going in is tough on the car. Bad condition for 4 miles. Beware.Hike-jog from Stuart lake trailhead to Snow lake trail head. To me this route looks like about 4000 ft gain and 6000 ft descent.  I started at 11am after a drive in from Seattle including 30 min (for 4 miles) on dirt road to reach the Stuart lake trailhead.  My parents' car was reading about 50 deg outside despite the sunny, clear morning.  I warmed up plenty quick on the trail but was glad to have long sleeve back up. The trail was beautiful and perfect for jogging the first 2-3 miles heading up to Colchuck. The last mile to the lake involved mostly hiking for me as the trail got rocky and steep. I went easy with the goal of having fresh legs for Aasgard. Aquamarine Colchuck was beautiful and well populated with hikers and campers. I stopped for a few pictures then continued on the trail , making two wrong turns (quickly realized and fairly easily corrected) before reaching the boulder field at the base of Aasgard. I found that from the boulder field up to the top of the pass I consistently had my hands on rocks to assist with progress and balance, a strategy that kept me stable and relatively safe but also significantly slowed my pace. The cairns were not always easy to site but were well worth taking the time to find and follow as they weaved a more passable line than otherwise. As it was my first time crossing I was a little shocked at what was considered a "trail" but also a little thrilled at the amount of climbing/scrambling involved. I must have seen 30 people climbing the pass, all with huge packs. I climbed with the certainty and humility of knowledge that I could never attempt this route with a large pack. I was surprised however by how few of the other hikers seemed to be using the cairns for guidance and saw a group of 5 get stuck in the basin half way up and had to backtrack a bit. My pace was further slowed by frequent stops to look behind me at the receding lake and gulp at the dizzying height each dozen steps seemed to add. My heart was racing but I let my legs go all out to reach the top before taking a real break, figuring it would be all downhill from there. Ha!  I still had a bit to learn about serious downhill:). I made the pass 3 hours after starting. The top was amazing, otherworldly, euphoric, like a different, quieter, shocking level of earth. I saw a dozen other people and they all wore sun-stunned expressions of wonder. It had me gasping peacefully which doesn't even make sense, and thinking this is the place that annihilates boredom. At the same time I was considering my pace and not wanting my family to worry at the other end if I didn't arrive at my estimated time 6 hours later.  Between the looking around in awe, looking around for cairns, and looking around for the next suitable place to step I was not making my conservative pace of even 4mph. I figured that would be fine as long as I could cruise the last eight miles or so. Having decided to do Aasgard up front I vastly underestimated the descent down to Snow lakes as everything I had read described this as paling in comparison, which it did in elevation per mile, but I found that it was a good 2-3 miles of descent steep enough to be using my hands again frequently as well as sitting down to scoot down a half-dozen or so sections. I saw a few goats on the trail and lots of tired hikers coming the opposite direction, all laden with packs half the size of themselves. By then my only thought was, how are they DOING this? At Nada lake the trail finally was runnable for me and I was able to "cruise" in that I was able to maintain a slow trot without needing to stop to climb or figure out where the trail was, but my legs were also tiring and I was not making up time fast enough to meet my goal.  At about a mile and a half out from the Snow lake trailhead I could get cell service and called down to let my waiting (worrying) parents know I was fine and I was on my way. Two goats on the trail were my final obstacle and I made it in about 6 hours and 40 minutes after starting. It was a long, hard 18 miles and left me sore not just in quads and calves, but in lats, forearms, abs, neck!  It also made me feel pretty lucky and strong and was unlike any "run" I've done before.Began our 6 day backpack trip through the Enchantments on the 8th.  We started from the Colchuck trailhead and camped at Colchuck the first night.    The trail going there was good.  On Tuesday, we hiked up Aasgard Pass.  There were many carins to mark the way up.  After getting to the top of Assgard Pass, we had to check the map and go to the left up another hill.  The views were great.  We camped out on the lakelets.  It was very breezy and cold when we set up camp.   If backpacking, be sure to prepare for the cold.   On Wednesday, we hiked up to Little Annapurna.  We ran into a group also going up so we tagged along with them as we were not sure where the trail was.  It was well worth it to go up there.  Was not bad going up.  On Wedesday night, it got down to 19 degrees, very cold, we were not expecting those temperatures.  Thursday we hiked down to Leprechaun Lake.   Much warmer there, no wind, and really loved the campsite there.  We did some exploring and enjoyed the beautiful scenery around us.  On Friday, we set out for Nada Lake.   We passed by Lake Viviane, then on to Snow Lakes and camped out on Nada Lake at the last campsite.  Left Saturday morning.  Took us about 2 1/2 hours to get down.  Really nice.  All the trails were well marked by carins and really enjoyed our trip there.Harvey Manning and Ira Spring admonished hikers that the proper way to approach the Enchantments is the long route via Snow Lakes, reaching the upper basin at the end. I'd respectfully suggest that following the route from Aasgard Pass and out Snow Lakes lets you follow the path of the retreating Snow Creek Glacier rushing through lakes and streams from the high basin all the way to Icicle Creek. We finally got a core zone permit for two nights and did the traverse from Colchuck Lake, up Aasgard Pass, and out through Snow Lakes. There are many Enchantments trip reports so I'll just make a few notes. We left our car at the Snow Lakes trailhead and arranged a pickup by Leavenworth Taxi and Shuttle to the Colchuck trailhead. This was pricey at $75 for a 6AM pickup but worthwhile to avoid the hassle of bringing two cars or hitchhiking. We started hiking around 7:00 AM and were glad we didn't leave any later. Climbing up Aasgard Pass in the sun is hot! There is no snow on Aasgard Pass. We found it to be a strenuous but straightforward huff and puff up a talus slope, well-marked by cairns. Don't underestimate how many layers you will need! We spent the first night in the upper Enchantments at over 7000 feet near the Brisingamen Lakelets and it was cold and windy. We wore all our layers to make dinner and breakfast and were still cold. I wish I had brought both my down jackets. We spent the second night at Sprite Lake in the lower Enchantments. This area is less exposed than the upper basin but still cold. There are a few larch in the upper basin but the area from Inspiration to Viviane is like a larch tree farm. A few of the larch had a yellowish tinge, and a few had yellow branches, but the time of golden larch is still a few weeks away. Aasgard Pass is played up as scary and dangerous, but I found the descent from Leprechaun Lake to Viviane to be the scariest section of the trail. There is one spot just before the rebar where you have to make several steps around granite bumps in an exposed section high above Lake Viviane. Don't slip! It was an awesome trip and it made me want to go back in larch season.Earlier in the year Carol reached out asking if I was interested in a September trip to the Upper Enchantments via Snow Lake. Hmm...lemme think...YEAH! I've been to the upper basin, it was late May 2007, but the place was covered under a heavy blanket of snow. I've always wondered what the place looked like all melted out. I've always wanted to head up there but never got around to trying for a permit. I'm really grateful Carol extended this invite...REALLY GRATEFUL... Day 1: We carpooled from the south end of Everett up and over Hwy 2 and into Leavenworth and then over to the Snow Lk trailhead (1339'). I was hoping for an early start...time to not have to rush up there and it had the benefit of helping to avoid the heat where the trail is in the open. Thankfully Rick, Taehee, and Carol also wanted to start early. We arrived early and thankfully, being mid week, we found a spot in the main parking lot. We finished the last minute packing details, snapped a photo at the trailhead, and then off we went...up (or down) the trail. The trail starts out by first dropping about 50' where it then crosses Icicle Creek, before it then starts a very steady and determined progression of elevation gain. First, the trail heads up a series of switchbacks in open terrain (trees are gone due to the 1994 fire) gaining about 800 in a bit over a mile (1.25mi, 2096'). Then a long rising traverse occasionally broken by switchback to the creek crossing (4.97mi, 4196'). The Nada Lake outlet comes at about 6.11mi (4935'). Then after the far end of Nada Lake there are a couple more switchbacks and then we finally reached the dam between Upper and Lower Snow Lks (7.66mi, 5413'). I think all of us were relieved, Taehee especially, that Upper Snow Lk was low, well below the top of the small dam we had to cross. She talked of having to cross this dam with a few inches of cold water flowing over the top. That didn't sound like fun so I was relieved to find it high and dry. We reached a nice campsite, home for the next two nights, at 8.57mi (5436'). We had taken our time getting here, but I think we all were tired and hungry. We quickly set up tents and them went straight into dinner. It was a bit chilly, a slight breeze at the lake, so by 8pm we were all huddled in our tents for the night. Day 1 stats: 8.57mi, 4510' gain / 413' loss Day 2: We wanted a full day in the upper basin. There was a prediction for 20% chance of rain at Snow Lk but 20% chance of rain/snow in the upper basin. We got up early, right about sunrise (6-6:30am), made breakfast, had some hot liquids, then packed up our packs and headed around the west side of Upper Snow Lk. It was here, before the Snow Creek inlet, that there was a deep and narrow washout. Thankfully there was a beat in path around the washout. On the other side, several groups were camped. After crossing Snow Creek (.45 from camp, 5439'), we followed the clear route up towards Lake Viviane. This is a strange route, it's a route really, hardly a trail, though it does show up on the maps. It's steep in sections, marked by cairns in the rocky areas, and in some sections the steep rock (especially that higher up) has severe consequences for a fall. After an initial section of dirt trail, there was one steep step to gain a granite slab. My knees were going well so far but I just couldn't get the umpf to get atop the rock without a nudge from Rick. I was really thankful to have Rick there spotting me on the steeper sections. The rest of the way up to Lake Viviane (2.04mi from camp, 6787') is a mix of dirt, rock, dirt, rock, dirt, steep rock, sloped granite slabs, rock, and then the final sloped/steep/big step with rebar where we finally entered the Enchantment Lakes upper basin! We had great weather the whole trip up an the blue skies looked like they would continue for a while. We rounded Lk Viviane, then went by Leprechaun Lk where we took a shot snack break. Then we continued on through Magic Meadow and over to Perfection Lake. Wow. Gorgeous rock. Stunningly clear lakes and tarns. The larch were still a solid shade of green. No gold even starting to poke out. It's going to be a few weeks yet before there is any hint of a change. After Perfection Lake we all headed up and over to Inspiration Lake where we were met by a family of goats. They know they own the place. We kept out distance. Taehee and Rick wanted to head up to Little Annapurna, pretty much a walk up without snow. I'd been up Little Annapurna my last time up to the Enchantments so I was happy to just explore the basin area. Carol and I sat for a while on a bump (3.75mi from camp, 7138') near Inspiration Lk that had a nice view down to Perfection Lk and over to Prusik Pk. We stayed there for a while and then hoping to get our of the wind a bit, we headed back down to Perfection Lk to find a nap rock. Just before we reached the north end of the lake, a couple pointed out an osprey perched high in a larch right next to the trail. Wow. Carol and I snapped some photos, then poked around looking for flowers...the gentians were in bloom. Then...we headed for the other side of the lake where it looked promising to find a nice rock. We found one...then boots off and puffy jackets on...we had the whole area to watch as if it was wide screen National Geographic TV. The osprey was still perched in the same tree. Then...a gust of wind came and the osprey floated up, not flapping it's wings, just riding the wind. Then in one quick burst it shot overhead, disappeared behind a large rock (the same couple that pointed the osprey out to us said it dove under the water). I next saw the bird shooting out from behind the rock with a small fish in its talons. It flew to the far side of the lake and looked like it found a nice rock where it could eat its meal. Carol and I waited a while...we figured Taehee and Rick would be back about 2:30 or 3:00pm. About 2:30pm some dark rain-like clouds started to roll in. A short time later, so did Taehee and Rick. We didn't waste any time hiking out. Rick was right about wanting to be off the granite slabs before the rain hit. We almost did it...we were about 1/2 way down to Snow Lake when the sprinkles started. Occasionally the sprinkles turned to light showers. Thankfully there was only a bit of steep wet rock we had to go over. By the time we got back to camp we had the protection of the trees and thankfully the rain eased up enough that we didn't have to huddle in tents for dinner. We turned in early, about 7:30pm. About 10:30pm I woke up to the sound of pouring rain and roaring winds. Day 2 stats: 7.78mi, 2138' gain/loss Day 3: The bad weather continued on and off until early morning. Thankfully, by the time we were up (about 6:30am) it had stopped and it appeared to be clearing. We packed up, made sure to leave the campsite cleaner than we found it, and started the hike out. We recrossed the small dam between the two lakes, hike down to Nada Lake and took a short layering break. After Nada Lake..it was a long slog back to the trailhead. That last 2+ miles is hard, steep downhill switchbacks with sore feet, no tree cover, and warm. Carol had been dreaming of a burger and a beer :) so we all headed off to Leavenworth for a yummy lunch...then the long drive home. Day 3 stats: 8.57mi, 413' gain / 4510' loss Great trip! Carol...thanks again for the invite...I'm grateful. Rick/Taehee...thanks for the help! You two are great! TOTAL Stats: 24.92mi, 7061' gain (round trip) More photos at the hyperlink below.Lucky to get the Core Enchantments permit, we entered the Enchantments through Aasgard Pass and exited through Snow Zone. Our 3-day breakdown has been:- Day 1. Hike from the TH to the top of Aasgard Pass, camp at Tranquil Lake- Day 2. Hike through Core Enchantments, side hike to Prussik Pass, exit and hike down to Snow Lake- Day 3. Hike out from Snow Lake Even though the Enchantments trail description advocates for entering through Snow Zone, I would suggest considering entering through Aasgard Pass for the following reasons:- 6 miles and 4400 feet to Aasgard Pass is actually doable in one day. 10 miles and 6000 feet through Snow Zone are much harder to do in one day.- You start your second day already in Core Enchantments, and you get to explore them in a not yet tired state.- All along the ascend you get majestic views of Colchuck Lake. The scenery in Snow Zone is much less dramatic and interesting.  A couple of gotchas:- Once you enter Core Enchantments, it's better to hike as far away from Aasgard Pass as you can manage. Our location at Tranquil Lake was really windy. Have we walked a bit further in, we would have enjoyed our first night much more.- While the side hike to Prussik Pass is well-marked, side hikes to Gnome Tarn and Temple Lake are not. In fact, though quite eager to visit those, we have passed the side trails to them without noticing them.- Once you reach the Prussik, do hike a bit more up, towards Prussik Peak. The scenery from there is so much more gorgeous!- The trail in Core Enchantments can be hard to navigate. Do make sure you follow the little pyramids at all times. Don't rely on the foot marks as we've done. And if you are lost - it's better to retrace your steps back to the trail or you might risk having to climb down the vertical wall... Overall, it has definitely been a hike of a lifetime. I have written a couple of blog posts about it:More photos can be found here:Day 1. Aasgard Pass. http://cs-girl.livejournal.com/275717.htmlDay 2. Core Enchantments. http://cs-girl.livejournal.com/276069.htmlDay 3. Snow Zone. http://cs-girl.livejournal.com/276346.htmlFirst time up in the Enchantments. We left the packed Colchuck Lake trailhead with sunny skies. Trail was excellent up to Colchuck. Just before our first view of Colchuck lake, we almost almost walked into two mountain goats. Seemed pretty low for goats. Lots of groups camping and day-hiking from Colchuck. Still some campsites open. The trail up to Asgaard pass was steep, but manageable. Made it up to the top in under 2 hours with packs. There were 6-10 groups camped in the upper Enchantmenents. We camped by Isolation lake, then hiked up to the Enchantment plain for a big view. No wind. Amazing stars.  Next day we ran into a lot of goats and a Ranger checking for permits. Make sure you have yours! Made it down the brutal trail to snow lakes. Just in time, it started to rain and thunder. It was long, but totally worth it. We'll stay for longer next time!My wife and I, our 12 year old daughter and 10 year old son headed out to backpack in the Enchantments with my daughters 12 year old friend and her mother. We left the Seattle area around 5am and started on the trail by 8:30. We encountered our first goats while the parking lot was still in view. We took a break near the creek and at Nada Lake on the way up. Passing Nada Lake we viewed a backpackers backside who was changing by the trail. My son who was leading the charge looked back at me with a "dad did you see that kinda grin". We made camp at Snow Lake for three nights. We day hiked up to the core. The kids swam in Snow Lake, Lake Viviane and Perfection Lake. At Lake Viviane we swam out to a rock island where we were able to jump off into the lake.  My son woke up one morning sick and even threw up so I hung out with the kids while the ladies made another trek up to Inspiration Lake.  On the way out we had a goat jam about 2 miles from the trailhead. There were two adult and 3 goats blocking the trail. One adult was fixated on a certain shrub area. We guessed that perhaps someone had peed in that spot. Please make sure you pee well off trail especially in goat country. We tried making noise and scaring them away, but they were stubborn. Another group soon showed up and the adults lead the way clapping and talking the goats this time scattered and let us through.  We had an amazing trip and the kids all really impressed us all. The Enchantments are not just for adults! My son has been talking about it ever since we got back and wants to do the traverse going up Aasgard next time!All of the hype about the Enchantments is well-deserved, it's a wonderfully beautiful string of alpine and sub-alpine lakes set against dramatic granite peaks with tons of side hikes. The perfect 4-day adventure for us. We planned the trip for almost a year - 4 of our 8 people were flying in from out of state, and for one of them, it was his first hike in Washington, so now I'm concerned he got a bit spoiled. We had planned to go in via Colchuck and do Asgard on day 1, but the weather report said rain and t-storms, possibly hail, so we reversed direction and went in via the more-protected Snow Lake. That first day was tough, but the payoff was extraordinary. While the Snow Lakes are fine, I highly recommend getting to the upper basin (via Snow Lake, that basically means Lake Vivianne) in 1 day, it's worth it. It's been said before, but the goats up there are AGGRESSIVE and want to be in camp with you - it was a struggle to chase them out sometimes. We did day hikes up to Prusik Pass and the surrounding area (fabulous views of some of the less-accessible lates in the ALW), and spent a lot of time relaxing on the 2 days in the upper basin. We decided to tackle Asgard on our 3rd day to make our hike out easy and knee-pain free. Beautiful trail, dramatic views everywhere you turn, and some of the most scenic privies I've ever had the pleasure of pooping on.We started backpacking last year because we wanted to take this hike.  We are 65 and had been hiking about 5 years.  The description made the trail seem difficult, and it did not disappoint.  It is a tough hike.  We had a 4 night permit but the weather showed thunderstorms the last two so we decided to spend 2 nights and 3 days which was a really good decision.  We also had heat and smoke to contend with, oh yeah, and a fire just over the ridge, but what can you do?   Another trip reporter said to lose as much pack weight as possible which is really good advise.   To do this, forget the bear spray and canisters, there are no bears.  Also, there is lots of water so we took a couple of .5 L bottles and a Steripen (that's what the ranger said she used) and an empty gallon milk jug to fill up with water for camp use and used purifier tabs with that.  The trail's two top descriptors would be steep and rocky, but increasingly beautiful.  We set out at 5:45, took one 15 min. break and reached our goal of Upper Snow Lake next to the creek at the far end 6 hrs. later.  That is a great spot next to the beginning of the trail to the Enchantments Basin.  It is also next to the creek where the water is clearer than the lake.  We passed many nice camps and found one looking out on the lake where we were entertained by the helicopters doing water pick ups to drop on the fire.  It was pretty smokey, and we decided to go to the Enchantments Basin early because we thought it would be less smokey.  So we started up the ridiculously steep rocky trail at 6:30 and got to the top about 8:00.  Watch for the cairns as you can easily get off trail.   The view was stunning!  No smoke.  We felt all the hard work was worth it.  It just got more ard more beautiful as we walked along on a much easier trail.  Lots of rocky peaks, serene lakes connected by falls, snowy white goats, and very few people.  What a day.  We ran into a climber/hiker, and we said we thought we would go to Prusik Pass.  He suggested we go to the Upper Enchantments instead because it was such a different landscape.  So we traveled on and climbed a steep rock filled shoot to arrive at a rock basin with a creek flowing through it.  Very dramatic.  We turned around about a mile from Assgard Pass as the heat and smoke were making it less enjoyable.  We arrived back 8 hrs after starting and quickly jumped in the lake to cool off.  Without a doubt the most memorable hike we've been on in the US.  We left the next morning at 5:30 in a light rain and were back out 4.5 hrs. later.   This is a tough hike.  Simply wanting to do it will not make up for lack of physical preparation, unless you are one of those bullet proof 20 year olds, then knock yourself out.  But for the rest of us mere mortals, take some steep hikes with a pack on your back to make sure you are up for it.  Then get a permit and set out on a hike you'll never forget.Through hike from Stuart Lake trailhead to Snow Lake trailhead. The road to Stuart Lake trailhead is pretty bad. A bit smoke, minimal bugs, nothing bad. Some flowers, nothing worth noting though. Being a Saturday, quite a lot of people. The water fall from Snow Lake to Nada Lake is shooting up like a jet stream. Long and never ending trail. But the scenery is as beautiful as I remembered.A few friends and I decided to trail run the Enchantments from the Stuart Lake trailhead to Snow Lakes trailhead to test a new app.  The trail is in great condition, you won't encounter any snow patches climbing up Aasgard pass as long as you follow the cairns.  We were a bit concerned it would be smokey since the ranger had said we'd encounter smoke near Snow Lakes.  At the top of Aasgard we could smell a hint of smoke and see the haze looking south-east but overall the smoke didn't bother us.  I didn't see a single mosquito and only a few flies and think this was due to the smoke in the air.  The smoke was at it's worst near Nada lake and might have been bad for someone with asthma but didn't give us any problems and there were plenty of hikers, we passed many open camp sites (for Sat).  We saw 4 mountain goats in different spots, they left us alone, we snapped a few pics and were off running again.  The lakes and scenery was spectacular and did not disappoint.   Here's a photo of the smoke haze looking towards icicle ridge, near Nada Lake.  You can view more photos and learn more about the conditions and Enchantment run on blog link below.A few friends and I decided to trail run the Enchantments from the Stuart Lake trailhead to Snow Lakes trailhead to test a new app.  The trail is in great condition, you won't encounter any snow patches climbing up Aasgard pass as long as you follow the cairns.  We were a bit concerned it would be smokey since the ranger had said we'd encounter smoke near Snow Lakes.  At the top of Aasgard we could smell a hint of smoke and see the haze looking south-east but overall the smoke didn't bother us.  I didn't see a single mosquito and only a few flies and think this was due to the smoke in the air.  The smoke was at it's worst near Nada lake and might have been bad for someone with asthma but didn't give us any problems and there were plenty of hikers, we passed many open camp sites (for Sat).  We saw 4 mountain goats in different spots, they left us alone, we snapped a few pics and were off running again.  The lakes and scenery was spectacular and did not disappoint.   Here's a photo of the smoke haze looking towards icicle ridge, near Nada Lake.  You can view more photos and learn more about the conditions and Enchantment run on blog link below.We camped at Colchuck our first night to get up Asgaard (per original Danish spelling) in the shade of morning.  There are beautiful wildflower seep areas here, draped in rich variety beside the falling stream.  Our first goats appeared, and we enjoyed the usual euphoria upon gaining the top of the pass. For three leisurely nights, our tents stayed put at Inspiration Lake, affording day hiking up Prusik Pass and Little Annapurna, besides welcome shelter through several dramatic lightning-and-hail storms.  Camaraderie and respect is strong in this magical place, but for the few who do not yet know how to behave around the wildlife whose homes we are invading. Educate and model for them, for we want to preserve this cherished relationship! Reluctant to leave "our" camp and goats, we through-hiked to the Snow Lakes TH.  A truly brutal 92 degrees made the final couple of miles the worst of a very long day, despite the beauty of the recovering burn area.  Smoke lingers as the fire crews continue their battle, and helicopter traffic is frequent.  The road to Colchuck TH is badly washboarded, though navigable.The Enchantments Traverse is a dream for all hikers. I left Seattle with my friend at 4am to reach Leavenworth a little after 7am. We took I-90 due to Hwy 2 closing, be prepared for construction, but it isn't too bad. We started the day hike from the Lake Stuart trailhead at 7:30am and ended at the Snow Lakes trailhead after 9pm.  The hike is gorgeous from the start. There is a steady elevation gain from the trailhead to our first destination: Colchuck Lake. Take some time to soak in the turquoise green color of the water and picturesque mountains. Then we hopped on granite boulders at the edge of Colchuck to reach the base of Aasgard Pass. The Pass looks short from the bottom (or at least I thought so) but it is quite long and very steep and rocky. After Aasgard Pass the hike was mostly a descent into a valley of beautiful lakes, waterfalls, mountains, and sightings of marmots, hummingbirds, and mountain goats. We had a few missteps after Lake Viviane, thankfully we found some cairns and were able to make it to the last leg of our trip, the Snow Lakes Trail. There were several areas concentrated with mosquitoes, unfortunately I didn't have any bug spray but these buggers were vicious, so I'm not sure how much it would have really helped. I walked away with over 20 swollen bites.  Hiking poles were incredibly helpful paired with good hiking boots and socks (and pack an extra pair or two). There is a variation of terrain including snow, rocks, boulders, dirt, and log bridges that's equally fun and caution worthy.Thru-hiked from Colchuck to Snow Lakes on Friday. Trail conditions were quite good, and Aasgard Pass in particular was better than I remember, with less loose scree. No snow except a couple of small crossings once you get into Upper Enchantments, and one steep snow-covered section right before Perfection Lake.  The mosquitos were unrelenting, both up Aagard and from Lake Vivian on down. I sustained over 50 bites. Once in the Upper Enchantments, bugs weren't an issue. I brought an applied some DEET but it didn't seem to help matters. Also, beware tight clothes and thin running caps -- they'll bite right through them. Next time, I'll try pre-soaking my hiking clothes in permethrin and not holding back on the DEET, or even wearing a net-hat at certain points.  Much better as a three-day backpack, but the thru-hike is a beast. Just as beautiful as I remember.We have won lottery for snow zone back in February; so decided to try out our first experience with Enchantment Lakes. We started early morning from Redmond and was at trail head by 9. There was bit of drizzle at the beginning rather than getting worried I was really happy that it would definitely help wild fire burning near by. Temperature was warm - so we decided to not do anything special for rain, at least we should have used our gaiters as it rained whole way; by the time we reached campsite our entire boots were soaked even though it was water proof. We were not alone - we have seen other hikers having similar issues as well and learned something new that I would never considered myself. I saw some hikers wearing extra layer of ziploc bag on top of their dry socks to deal with wet boots and not getting cold - something I would like to consider next time I face similar situation.  We took a break at Nada lake and met a party there waiting out the bad weather. Apparently weather turned bad for 2 days for them so they were just hoping to see glimpse of Enchantments before their permit runs out. We reached snow lake by 2 and put up camp towards the end of lake with water access and toilet nearby. We were hoping for nice weather following day. It was drizzling all day so the only way we could avoid rain was by sheltering inside the tent. It rained whole night as well and got very cold. To avoid weight I dropped my inner layer at home in last minute thinking it's summer in 80s in Seattle area so I should be fine; a BIG MISTAKE. You should prepare for wintery condition and pack all layers no matter how warm it is at lower elevation. Following morning we saw some sunlight so that lifted our spirit even it was still drizzling. After about 9 weather improved sufficiently so me and my partner headed up to Core Enchantments.  We thought it would be rather easy to hike snow lake to core area considering we already hiked significant amount the previous day but we found hike to be challenging with bit scrambling required in some places. After about 2 hours we finally reached lake Vivian and we instantly met a wild goat. We also met many other parties entered through aasgard and had horrible time dealing with cold and wintery condition. Many of them changed their camping spot in search of more friendlier condition. At lake Vivian we had first experience of extreme wind but we moved on to core areas despite challenges. With gray sky and foggy weather there was not much to photograph so I carried back fond memory with me instead. We went as far as the fork to prussik pass and then decided to come back. On our way back - we met a goat family with 2 small ones near the Rebar section. So I photographed them and felt really good with experience. We met a party who has been at Enchantments for 3-4 days and they only encountered goats with us after moving near lake Vivian On our way back to camp my partner and I were thinking if we should this same hike again tomorrow morning with challenging weather condition and both of us were NOT looking forward to it. So decided to break the camp and head back earlier than planned and sleep on warm beds in the end. It's a long hike back for us with heavy pack after doing Enchantments on same day but we survived and reached parking lot by 8 with daylight to spare.Did the Enchantments through hike on Saturday. Hiked from around 6am - 7pm with many stops in between. No smoke from the wildfires burning nearby on the hike The parking lake at Colchuck was about half full when we left. The hike up to Colchuck was pretty easy and a great warm up for what was to come. Stretch those legs! The first look at Asgard makes them shake a bit. We saw our first two mountain goats by Colchuck lake - the kept running along on the trail in front of us. We only saw one tent from the trail. From talking to a lot of people on the trail many were scared off by the wildfires nearby. The climb up the pass was snowfree but with the stream running through the "trail" for a good part in the start. Saw a few marmots near the bottom. We took it pretty slow with many breaks to look around. Be careful not to hike under another person so that you are not "rocked". The pass was truthfully not as hard as I thought it would be and was listed as the favorite thing in the hike for both me and my hiking buddy. Strange? Near the top of the pass it was very very windy. Hard to stand up. We didn't linger long and started down the Core zone. Lots and lots of wind through the Core. A few snowfields to pass that are melting fast but the snow felt pretty sturdy. Use care near the overhand edges. The lakes are beautiful and we didn't see nearly as many people as I had expected from my past visit. Wonderful time to go - waterfalls and streams in full swing. Stream crossings were all pretty easy as long as you've got your poles. Mountain goats are out and about. We saw around 7 during the traverse including one baby. The trek down from Lake Viviene was painful - the start of the long descent. Working those squat muscles! The bugs also came out at this point - small ones that really get in there! Not swarming, but I'd recommend some protection. Snow lakes were beautiful and full. The dam is overflowing. Choose wisely whether to take your shoes on or off. I took mine off and was very happy. My hiking buddy did not enjoy wet feet for the last 8 miles. The rest of the hike down was the painful part that would never end of the traverse. The feet are hurting and it just keeps going down and down and down. Nada lake was a nice break in the downhill - the drainage pipe is not on. Seeing the car slowly approaching on the last descent was not as fun. But we made it down and headed over to Leavenworth for some well deserved brats! Highly recommend right now for the through hike - loads of daylight and the snow is almost gone. We were happy that we finished with two hours of daylight to spare and had started half an hour after sunrise.Report for the Enchantments Zone between Snow Creek Trailhead and Stuart Lake Trailhead. Map: Green Trails Map (Enchantments) gives the best info on elevation, milage, etc. REI has it for $12. Permit: NW forest pass required along with camping permit and parking permit. See below for camping/parking permit.  Lottery info: I did a lot of research here and here is the skinny. There are 5 permit zones, four of which access the Enchantments: Stuart/Colchuck/Core Enchantments Zone/Snow Lakes. The fifth is 8 mile which is accessed via the 8 mile trailhead. You can get advanced permits (camping and parking) via lottery on the gov't website OR you can show up to the Levenworth Ranger station (across from McDonalds) and enter into a lottery the morning of your start date. You must arrive at 7:30am and the lottery happens at 7:45am. They give out 5 permits to the 8 mile zone and one permit for each of the other 4 zones. I was told that it was HIGHLY UNLIKELY that i would get a permit to one of the 4 zones but when I arrived Saturday morning, there were 4 parties total so we each got a zone. If you draw the Core Enchantments Zone, you can camp ANYWHERE you want. If you draw one of the 3 others, you MUST camp in that zone (area is heavily patrolled by rangers so I wouldn't recommend trying to be sneaky). If you are going to do the entire enchantments trail from Snow Creek to Stuart Lake, I'd recommend starting at Snow Creek since the trail is in a burn area and its nice to knock out the first 5 miles while its cool and the sun is still behind the ridge to your left. Icicle Road/Snow Creek Trailhead/Nada Lake/Snow Lakes:Once you get a permit, head back to the West up HWY 2 and right before you leave town, Icicle Road is on the left. I secured my Stuart Lake zone permit and drove to the Snow Creek trailhead which starts at 1400 ft. The first five miles up to Nada Lake/Snow Lakes is easy walking but climbs 3500 ft. From upper snow lake the trail climbs VERY steeply to Enchantment Lake. This section of trail is somewhat difficult to follow and VERY steep with some scrambling.  Enchantment Lakes and Basin:Once you arrive at Enchantment Lake, most of the basin is at 6200ish ft and slowly climbs towards Aasgard Pass at 7800 ft. This section is SPECTACULAR and had a dozen more more large snow patches. The trail is often hard to see but there are large and obvious cairns. Check out the map for specific milage. Aasgard Pass/Colchuck Lake/Stuart Lake/Stuart Lake Trailhead:At the western edge of the Enchantments basin is Aasgard Pass which descends VERY VERY steeply down to Colchuck Lake. The "trail" is mixture of scree fields, loose rocks and boulder hopping and was one of the most treacherous sections of trail I'd ever hiked given the conditions and overall traffic. I was able to get down in 45 minutes with trail running shoes and trekking poles but most folks with larger packs and boots seemed to require 1-2 hours to get down. Once you arrive at Colchuck Lake, the trail skirts around the edge of the lake is also a mixture of thick vegetation and boulder hopping. The rest of the trail along the lake is easy walking. After leaving the lake, the trail descends toward the Stuart Lake Trail. From that junction, Stewart Lake is 2.2 miles up the trail. The best campsites seems to be further up the trail towards the end of the lake. The walk back to Stuart Lake trailhead is quick and easy. From the trailhead, its about 4-5 miles down a rough gravel to Icicle Road and then another 4 miles back to the Snow Creek trailhead. There is a LOT of traffic here so hitch hiking is easy.  NOTE: The hike described above from Snow Creek trailhead to Stuart Lake was 20+ miles with roughly 7,000 ft of climbing and took me 11ish hours. The trail is very challenging and the exposure/climbing/elevation is also demanding. NOT recommended for a beginner. Water: Plentiful access via lakes and LOTS of access via small streams. I use AquaMira and only filtered my water 50% of the time. Exposure/Sun/Bugs: The trail is very exposed and it was very warm with lots of mosquitos. They weren't swarming but they were certainly present. Sunscreen and bug repellent is a must.  For runners: To do this as a trail run, I would start at the Stuart Lake trailhead and finish at Snow Creek. Hiking UP Aasgard Pass and then running down from Enchantments Lakes/Snow Lakes/Nada Lakes to the Snow Creek trailhead is much easier in my opinion.  For skiers: Lots of great late season turns to be had especially between Isolation Lake and Aasgard Pass and near Anapurna. The next time I return, it will be with my AT gear. Food afterwards: Hit up Icicle Brewery behind Starbucks or South (great Latin food and drinks) just down the street from Icicle Brewery.  Cheers!Had overnight permits for the Snow Zone of the Enchantments.  Hiked up Friday in the blazing hot sun - happy to get shade on the final mile up.  Trail was good and found a sweet camp site on the lower part of the Upper Snow Lake.  2nd day we  hiked to the upper lakes and spent some time relaxing and cooling off at Lake Leprechaun then back to camp for dinner.  Hiked out Sunday morning and were happy to herd a goat and her kid part of the way down.  Bugs were relentless once we reached Nada lake - biting through permethrin sprayed clothing and Jungle Juice - be prepared.  Worth the bites and sore muscles though!Decided to give the full Enchantments day-hike a try on Thursday.  I arrived at the Stuart Lakes trailhead a little before 6:30AM and took off for Colchuck Lake.  The initial couple of miles are relatively easy until you hit the turn off for Stuart Lake.  At that point, the trail begins to climb over the 1.6 miles to get to Colchuck and gets a bit more difficult.  I got to the lake at 8:00AM, and it was glorious.  The weather was pleasant and the sun was beginning to peak over the mountains.  Trail conditions to this point were great. Following the trail around the right side of the lake took me over a couple of boulder fields that made for some interesting passage.  I got to the base of Aasgard right before 9:00AM and started the intimidating ascent. I had read about the difficulties of hiking up over the pass, and they proved to be more than accurate.  Took me about two hours to make it to the top, and it was quite arduous.  The trail is in just about as good of shape as you could hope for with only some small snow patches near the top. Once I crested the pass, I had mostly downhill hiking to go for the next 12-14 miles.  The Upper (and even lower) Enchantments still have quite a bit of snow although it's melting quickly.  There were 8-10 occasions where I was forced to traverse over snow fields without much knowledge as to what lay below.  Hopefully, it'll be completely thawed out within a few weeks.  The landscape was beautiful, and I met a number of goat families on Aasgard and in the Enchantment basin. After reaching Lake Viviane, I begin my descent to Snow Lakes.  There was still some snow on the rebar sections of the granite slabs, which made for difficult climbing down.  That should thaw within a week. The dam crossing between Upper and Lower Snow Lakes had a steady flow of water going over the top but was relatively easy to cross with some patience.  The trail down from Snow Lakes to Nada and then out to the Snow Lakes trailhead was pretty uneventful and in great shape.  No snow. Took just under 12 hours to do the full hike-through.  It was a wonderful hike but left me plenty sore in the days since. A special thank you to the couple from Phoenix that gave me a lift back up to my car at the Stuart Lakes trailhead!I hiked from the Snow Lake TH to Lake Vivian Wednesday. There was a goat family of three to greet me at mile 1.2.  And there was a cool breeze to make the grind more pleasant.  Ripe Salmon berries, many varieties of wildflowers, and multiple critters lessened the chore of climbing. There is snow for the last 100' to Lake Vivian and almost solid snow beyond that lake.  I met 16 packers coming out, many with soaked boots and shoes.  I'm glad that I did not come up Aasgard Pass. There was a herd of Mountain Goats at Lake Vivian with four cute little kids.  It was fun to watch the kids play. I hiked out early this morning trying to reach Nada Lake at sunrise.  The lake was beautiful at dawn as I was coming down the mountain.  I was 30 minutes late reaching the lake and it was raining.  I put a rain cover on my pack; and when I reached the outlet end of Nada Lake, the sun came out and set a rainbow across the lake!  It was stunning. The Enchantments do not disappoint.  I usually ascend up Aasgard Pass and hike through to the Snow Lake TH.  This time I went up and back on the Snow Lake trail and took the time to look around.  It is an interesting trail with plenty to see.  The waterfalls are plentiful and mesmerizing. I met only six hikers heading up this morning: three with tall packs and three with day packs.  But I came out quite early.My Dear Feet - I am so, so sorry.  I know I should not have put you through what I put you through on Saturday. I know what you're thinking, and no, I did not forget the pain we went through the last time we hiked in and then out the Snow Lakes trail four years ago. I still remember vividly the tortuous final miles, when it felt like you'd both been amputated from me without anesthesia.  Why did I hope for something different this time? Well, so much had changed between then and now. We've hiked hundreds if not thousands of miles, climbed so many mighty heights - surely this gentle little trail couldn't bring us to our knees!?!?! (Or more to the point, make us wish we no longer had knees, since the ones we've got are now throbbing and mostly useless.)  I admit it now - I was wrong to bring us back here - but c'mon! It was worth it, wasn't it? THINK ABOUT WHAT WE SAW!  There we were, sitting at Snow Lakes, when a chipmunk jumped in the water and swam to the other side of that small channel. Who even knew chipmunks *could* swim, and here we were pondering why one *would* swim when it could have just walked an extra ten feet to go around the water. Was it nuts? Was it tormented by ticks? After all, when we got home, it turned out I had two stuck to me without even realizing.  Remember the goats? The one at Nada Lake was as tiny as we've ever seen -- nervous about us, but curious about my clumsy efforts to scale a piddly boulder. The herd at Lake Viviane was bolder - much more used to humans,  and intent on protecting its two kids. The yearling with a broken horn was a poignant reminder of just how tough life is in this unforgiving environment. We couldn't see these things without a little sacrifice on your part - no pain, no gain! It could have been worse. I could have followed through on the original plan to through-hike the Enchantments over several miles of wet, sloppy snow and then down the torture test that is Aasgard. Think about that for a second - a relatively short miserable shuffle back to the car or being drowned in your boots - which would you rather?  I didn't mean to get angry there. I don't know what to say, other than: I'm sorry, and I promise not to do it again. That is, until the next time...Hoping to do the enchantment lake traverse before the overnight camping permits were required, my buddy and I dropped our car at the snow lake trailhead and took a shuttle to the Colchuck lake trailhead (Stuart lake trailhead). We made it to Colchuck lake in a couple of hours without coming across any snow on the trail. The views were outstanding. With the staggered spire like mountains encompassing the lake, the scenery is awe inspiring. Since we wanted to complete the traverse in a couple of days we decided to move forward and climb Aasgard pass and camp either next to Lake Tranquil or Isolation lake. On our way up we met scores of climbers who had either summited Dragontail or Mt Colchuck and were descending Aasgard pass to reach the shore of Colchuck lake where they were camping. We got to the upper basin at around 8:30 pm and found it to be completely covered by snow. Even the outlines of any lakes weren't visible. To be safe we skirted along the edge of the basin to avoid walking over any frozen lakes. Unfortunately the trail wasn't discernible in the snow at all and neither were the cairns. By 10 pm, light was almost out and we were still trying to find the trail. Pretty certain we were lost, we were forced to camp on a pass on the left side of Dragontail peak overlooking Iron Peak in the distance.  After a night of extremely strong winds (bending the tents frame completely!) we decided to turn back in the morning and get to Colchuck lake trailhead and hitchhike our way back to the car. Climbing down Aasgard pass was as strenuous as climbing up, however glissading down the snow fields at the very bottom of the pass was awesome and did cut down our descent time. The views were worth it and is easily one of the most gorgeous landscapes in the country. In hindsight we wished we knew the route better beforehand (or gone with someone who had done the entire traverse). Be prepared to camp on snow and spending some time trying to find the trail above the pass. Micro spikes and and an ice axe would've been very helpful.We got to the trailhead on Friday morning - when there were less than a dozen cars in the parking lot.  Both my backpacking partner and I were Enchantment rookies. Took off with full packs with the plan to hike to Colchuck Lake and set up camp for two nights then dayhike up Aasgard. The trail to Colchuck was great.  Very well maintained and Rangers/Trail crews had taken care of blowdowns, etc.  This trail has a bit of bouldering, water to cross and lots of roots but the hardest part was the elevation and constant climb.  I underestimated this trail and had to really take my time/stop to enjoy the scenery more often than I would've liked.  I'm blaming the elevation change but it's probably that I just wasn't in the shape I should've been to carry the pack I did. We found a great camping spot along the west side of the lake - lots of spots available at the north end, a few around the west side and then rock camping spots easily found on the south end.  Three different maintained backcountry toilets are in place between the north end to the southwest side of the lake.  They are well marked and as maintained as backcountry toilets can be. It was chilly in the evenings so make sure to bring your layers - but you can't beat the view.  We ran into Ranger Adam and friends on Saturday night - the were headed through to check/improve trail conditions as needed. The hike up Aasgard on Saturday was intense.  Still a decent amount of snow, loose footing and often no marked trail.  To find the start - keep close to the water through the boulder section, the trees and snow filled wash.  Then keep your eyes peeled for cairns.  There were many in place to help you keep to the trail verses trampling over the spring growth. Once you get over the pass all you can see is snow, rock and a bit of amazing alpine blue water.  Make sure your boots are freshly waterproofed or your feet are going to get wet.  We hiked in only as far as Crystal Lake.  The sun was shining so the snow was soft and my heavier hiking partner spent plenty of time climbing out of thigh deep holes as he "hiked."  We didn't have any technical gear for this journey but I did have poles which I thought were a huge help both in the Core area and for the climb up and down Aasgard. We ran into a mountain goat in the Core as well as one on the way down 1599.  Other than that - lots of birds around the lake as well as chipmunks and mice.  Bring rope to hang foot bags to keep it away from these critters.  I've heard from multiple people that they've had gear ruined up in this area because of little rodents chewing through it to get to something else.  I did spot two young Cutthroat Trout in Colchuck and saw plenty of fish jumping during the feeding hours. Those who have your permits for this year - enjoy!  Those who are going for the luck of the draw - Good Luck. When we got out on Sunday around noon - the parking lot was full and cars stretched down the side of the road.I hiked up to nada lake for lunch, there was hardly any snow on the path at all. There were probably 5-10 trees fallen over the path, but I was able to get over them even with a heavy pack on. From Nada lake I headed up to the Snow lakes, where there was hard snow/ice on the ground but a very clear trail. I made it to snow lake about 4 hours after leaving the trailhead and setup camp, most of the campsites along the lake were snow-free. Although 20 feet into the trees it was still snowy all around. I camped overnight and woke up the next morning to hike to the main basin of the enchantments. There was no path at all, so it took much longer as I had left my detailed map at home. Big mistake! There were a few random footprints that could be followed, but be warned! They lead me to dead ends multiple times. You'd be better off with a good map making your own route. You'll want to follow a path around snow lake until you get to the northwest corner, where there will be a big creek. Walk west from there, following the general direction of the creek. This will take you towards the top, although you might have to navigate around small cliffs. Eventually this should take you to a steep, snowy hill south of the creek, which will lead you to the top. Almost everything is still frozen, but it's still beautiful.Our goal was to hike the Enchantments traverse, starting Friday night and ending Sunday evening. We got on the trail around 7:30 PM and bumped up to Colchuck under clear skies and stars in about three hours. We passed two groups coming out with reports of good hiking but cold at the lake. It was indeed cold at the lake but we were well prepared for that. Right about the time our tent was up the wind started to build and there was a light snow falling. That night was windy and wet but not too cold at the lake. The next morning the temperature fell below freezing but the summit of Aasgard was clearly visible. A fresh dusting on the granite peaks around us made for a breathtaking sight.We started the climb up Aasgard in moderate wind and flurries of snow. Traction shoes are required for the pass at this point, but I can't provide a report past that because we never made it over the top. Around 3/4 of the way up we encountered gusts of wind well above 70 mph, and near white-out conditions. After being blown over a few times (I'm over 6' tall and pretty sturdy) we decided to backtrack to Colchuck and reevaluate. Round-trip from Colchuck 3/4 of the way up Aasgard, and back to Colchuck took almost 4 hours. At the lake we ran into some climbers who gave us an updated forecast of 100+ mph winds on the summit and 12-24 inches of snow with improving conditions Sunday. We didn't feel like waiting around and hiking from Colchuck to the Snow Lake trailhead in one day so we aborted for plan B and headed for Stuart Lake.On the way down the trail, now covered in 6-12" of fresh snow, we had to climb over four trees that had fallen since we hiked in 24 hours earlier. At that point we decided to avoid risking getting hit by a falling tree, so we headed back to Leavenworth for some hot soup and a beer.Moral of the story: if you are headed this way be prepared for winter weather, bring traction for your shoes, and as the snow builds it may be time to break out the snowshoes or alpine touring gear.  There are some trees down across the trail now that require rerouting through the bushes in places. All in all a great adventure, but not for the faint of heart.Started at the Nada/Snow Lakes trailhead around 9:30 am. The weather was cool and dry for this long uphill climb. I must admit, it's a tough one. I think one of the most important things on this hike is to follow the cairns. We lost the trail few times coming back down, but if you stop and survey where you're at you'll find a nice stack of rocks to get you back on track. We were on our hands and knees a lot of the time from Snow Lakes up to the Enchantments. There are areas of rebar, concrete, and/or holes in the rocks to help you gain traction for the climb up and down. Keep your mind on the prize - the destination is more than worth it! The only time we needed our microspikes was on a very slick and icy rounding from Lake Viviane to Leprechaun Lake. A couple behind us took it super slow without traction, but I would highly recommend bringing something.We set up camp on a high bluff at Leprechaun Lake. The forecast called for a clear, cool night. We, along with others who camped down in the basin, experience powerful wind gusts all night that had us holding our tents up with our hand to keep it from smacking us in the face. Eventually, around midnight, we decided to move our tent down into a more sheltered area of the bluff where we could stake our tent down and further support it with trekking poles. Worked like a charm. We had snow flurries for breakfast (yum!). The snow picked up on our way down. Luckily there was a group ahead of us to lead the way. The tracks got covered up quickly by about 1/2" of snow. By the time we reached Nada Lake there were no signs of rain or snow. Both the Nada/Snow Lakes TH and Colchuck TH were surprisingly empty on Sunday afternoon - probably less than 10 cars each.To read more about our journey and see more photos please visit our blog: http://analonthetrail.blogspot.com/Took the Leavenworth Taxi to set up a one way overnight backpack through the enchantments beginning at the Stuart Lake Trailhead. Left around 9ish and got to Colchuck around noon. Good trail until hitting the boulder field at the end of the lake. We got lost in the boulders, but eventually found the marked trail around Aasgard pass. The going was easier along the marked route. Patchy snow/ice around the boulders required care and time. Did eventually put on microspikes and my partner put on his crampons partway up the pass when the snow became more continuous. There was more snow and ice than expected based on previous trip report. Definitely bring traction, gaiter and poles. There were places where a fall would be extremely bad. Steps have been beaten in by previous hikers, but they were pretty icy. Snow was reasonably continuous through about halfway down the lake basin. We camped past tranquil lake. Consider the wind when choosing a tent spot; the howling kept us up.Woke Sunday to a goat and a beautiful sunrise before the hike out. Snow steps around the knob near lake Vivianne were exposed and icy. Rebar and slab sections down to Snow lake were mainly dry, although it snowed after we passed through them. Rest of the trail was in great shape- just a few trivial downed trees and muddy bits.Through hiked the Enchantments beginning at Colchuck Lake Trailhead and finishing at Snow Lakes Trailhead.  Snow free until you hit Aasgard Pass where it becomes intermittent compact icy snow.  Crampons or microspikes are nice to have as you work your way up. It can be done without but makes slower going and a bit iffy. The upper enchantments are snow covered but again compact. Snowshoes not needed.  Made a side trip up Little Annapurna where the crampons were handy once again.  Nice steps in the snow from previous hikers when the snow was soft.  Beautiful clear skies and views from atop.  Lower enchantment basin was mostly snow covered. Trail down to snow lakes was difficult to find and we ended up bushwacking/scrambling our way down to snow lakes.  At this point it began to darken up.  No snow from snow lakes back to the car.  Hikes in the dark for about 3 hours but had no issues.  Larch season is over no more golden tinge on the larches (bummer).  My wife and I did a 3 day / 2 night backpacking trip. We started at the Snow Lakes Trailhead with the goal of camping in the Enchantments (near Lake Vivian). We changed plans after realizing our fitness wasn't up to par carrying heavy packs, and instead opted to camp at Nada Lake for both nights and make a day-trip up to Lake Vivian and beyond. We were super happy with our choice, we got a great campsite and the weather was warmer at Nada vs up higher. Hiking up to Lake Vivian there was snow on the trail, but nothing too severe (hiking boots were fine). We spoke with several people hiking through the entire length of the Enchantments and they mentioned there was a short stretch where snowshoes or added traction would help, but wasn't necessary. We really lucked out in that the weather was 100% clear for our entire trip. The Larch Trees were still a blazing yellow/orange color (through probably a week or so past their prime fall color). We say mountain goats and deer.....what more could we ask for???Amazing trip, and I can't wait to go back next year, with proper fitness to make camp all the way up near Lake Vivian or Beyond. RaviThis hike was very challenging but well worth the effort. It definitely helped to read the trip reports before the journey, so I would like to contribute my own.I am often able to do hikes quickly by trail running the flatter areas and downhills - however on this hike, this is not very possible so plan on taking 11+ hours for the 18 mile journey. Also the scenery is so stunning, that even if you could speed up the trip, you wouldn't want to - for at least the first half of the hike from Colchuck Lake to Lake Viviane.I recommend doing Aasgard Pass first and getting to the stunning Enchantment lakes as soon as possible. That's what my friend and I did anyway. The pass isn't actually that bad if you bring the right gear - which needs to include some sort of traction devices this time of year to get traction on the steep snow and ice.Colchuck was a stunning lake to come to just a few miles into the hike. So dramatic this time of year, a contrast to the lakes to come which are tranquil and calm. Great view up to Aasgard from Colchuck, and you will soon be on your way up.Aasgard took my friend and me about an hour and a half. We thought we could power through it faster, but ended up taking additional time on the snow in order to make sure we didn't lose footing and also enjoy the views. Cairns are definitely helpful to stay on course, but also the pathway is pretty evident in the snow as well.Once up the pass, you'll come to the enchantment lakes quickly. Some are frozen this time of year but most are not. They are stunning. The trees were all turning yellow which was unreal against the snow and blue green of the lakes and white granite. I have been on a lot of hikes but this was by far the most stunning, and most technical.There were three pretty challenging parts of the hike. One was Aasgard, but two involved steep icy downhills. Take your time and you'll make it through ok if you have some sort of spiky shoe attachments.The first ten miles of the hike are by far the best. I could do away with the second half - though I would not want to return down Aasgard. The hike back through Snow lakes and down to the cars is pretty anticlimactic after the Enchantments. It's about 8 miles of "standard" views and man made lakes.One major downside of this hike is the need for two cars. I live over 2 hours from the trail, and it was a big inconvenience to waste gas on two cars for a 10 mile trail head difference. However I would even less like to bike ride up hill at the end of the journey as well. And on a weekday, we didn't see too many other cars at either trailhead at the time we finished, around 6:30pm.All in all it took us 11 hours and 15 minutes to do the hike. We figured we stopped to take pictures and eat for roughly 1.5 hours. It is clear why people spend several days in this area, as it was too gorgeous to speed through, however the need for permits made that impossible on this trip.A day hike is definitely doable if you are fit and determined and start early. We started at 7am in the dark, and drove out from retrieving the second car at 7pm in the darkness. Unfortunately we did not see any goats. Stunning hike. Can't wait to do it again in another season, as it is just amazing. Sad I couldn't bring my dog :(This was a three day backpack that we did from Saturday morning to Monday evening. At 18 miles total, don't underestimate how strenuous and long this hike is! It is definitely worth it, as the views are the best in WA, but be prepared for some slow hiking, due to snow and ice.We weren't sure what to expect with the snow conditions, so we brought and carried snowshoes the entire time without ever using them. The paths have been packed down from everyone walking on the same steps that all you really need for the trip is microspikes (they were most helpful on Aasgard!).Our group had 2 cars so we parked the cars at both trailheads and did a loop starting at Stuart Lake trailhead and ending at Snow Lakes. This was by far the best way to do it. Snow Lakes is a bit of a boring way in and I felt good about going up Aasgard Pass, but I would not be happy about going down it. It's very steep and would take a long time to go down. We saw some people going downhill in trail runners with no poles and microspikes but I would certainly not suggest it!!We did about 5.5 miles on the first day to Colchuck Lake which took about 3.5 hours and was an easy hike through pretty flat forest. There is a surprisingly long 1 mile boulder-hopping section around Colchuck which takes a bit of time. We were to ascend Aasgard the next morning so we went around the lake almost in its entirety and found a nice little campsite by the beach that you get to by cutting through the woods. The second day was quite the day. We hiked less than 4 miles in 7 hours and we are fit people who like to hike. Our plan was to do Aasgard, go through the Core Enchantment zone, and camp at Upper Snow Lake by evening (about 5-6 miles). We figured that would be a long day but we would manage it by the time the sun set. We were definitely wrong! The Pass took just shy of 3 hours, and we sat at the top for some pictures and a quick lunch. Then the rest of the day we enjoyed the beautiful sites with the lakes and the larches. What really tripped us up was how slow-going it would be to go down some steep snow sections and to circumvent the lakes on icy and slanted trails that were maybe 1 foot from the water's edge, making it hard to go fast! Beware also of the 'rebar' section that they talk about in the trip description prior to Lake Viviane. This section is a steep-a** rock cliff with some small rebar pieces cemented in the rock to help you get up the rock. However, when it's covered with ice and snow they don't really do anything to help you get down the thing, especially with a huge pack on. It's doable, but be careful!By nightfall, we only made it to Lake Viviane so we decided to call it a day and actually found some beautiful campsites by the lake. It was chilly, with the temperature dipping below freezing but we slept well.In the morning, we were leaving our site when 4 goats came down the trail to say hello - and block our path. 2 adults and 2 babies. They are gorgeous creatures and were more interested in licking pee than attacking us, but we kept our wits about us and kept our distance for a while. They eventually got distracted and moved out of our path. I'd suggest keeping an eye out for these guys and be careful not to provoke.The last day of our backpack was much longer than we anticipated because we had to make up for the lost mileage to Snow Lake, so we did about 10 long relatively uneventful miles back to the car. It took just under 7 hours. There is a lot of elevation to descend so make sure you have those hiking poles handy. All in all this was an unforgettable trip and utterly gorgeous. My recommendation would be to get an early start every day and be prepared for snow and ice. *** Trip from 10/7 - 10/10 (Hiking Out & In from Snow Lakes TH) ***Like A River Runs Through It, The Enchantments will haunt you.  Walk these trails and see these landscapes--you will become hooked, an addict, a junkie.  I first became enamored August 2012.  Then in 2013 I hiked it in July (lots of mosquitoes, but swam in a lake 4 days in a row!).  Then there was my Permit I obtained because someone forfeited their permit---lucky me.  I wanted this time of year, and we all know why:  The Larch.Was super excited for the hike, but weeks before the trip I saw forecasts and trip reports showing snow in the Core in September!!  I was worried.  I had three salsa-dancing friends and Enchantment virgins coming along (and for one, this was their first backpacking trip EVER!).  I stressed.But I rubbed the head of my fellow hiker who brings good weather, and we went for it.  We arrived in Leavenworth to a bit of dramatic weather.  The wind was howling, needles and debris flew threw the air, it was raining, and we saw snow on peaks from the TH.  In other words, we LOVED it!We hiked through the weather and made our way to Nada Lake for FIRST Camp.  I'd never hiked this way (have started from Stuart Lake TH....but canned that idea about stories of deep snow on Aasgard).  This route wasn't that bad.  We made it to Nada an hour before nightfall---REMEMBER shorter days in the Fall!!!On Tues morning we awoke to light snow falling.  As we made our way up to Snow Lakes, the snow stopped, and the sun & blue bird skies tickled us in all their glory.  At Snow Lake we walked into beauty and had our first glimpses up to The Core.  We could see some snow, and also a peppering of larches (and also the big climb we had in store).We pushed on.  I worried that it would be hard to find the trail going UP from Snow Lake, but it actually was no problem at all.  The cairns always help, but tracks in the snow make it trivial.  It was a bear as expected climbing those hundreds of feet.  We made Viviane a little bit before sunset.  I really wanted to make it to Leprechaun, so I asked my Band of Salseros to give me just a few more steps. And so with skies becoming purple and dark, we made our way up around the Granite Rebar Wall area (which was filled with snow 2-3' deep).  We made it past the Rebar section with no problem, but a few steps later was the trail which hugs a ledge a hundreds of feet above chilly-looking Viviane Lake.  I have to admit being a little scared (I fronted like I wasn't though to my friends--I mean Leprechaun was only steps around the corner!!!).  So, I took a few steps, and then turned around.  My sure-footed salsa goddess was behind me, but the next thing I saw was her slip a foot in the slushy snow and then grab the branch of a tree for life as she straddled a rock.  I WAS SO SCARED!!!  (she was calm and steady).  At this point, I called it.  My friend was easily able to get her footing, but it was too dangerous for us.  The winds were picking up.  It was now dark.  We slushed back to down to Viviane and rushed to make camp near the water & amongst the shelter of the larch.This was a brilliant decision.[NOTE on Upper Core:  whenever we saw people I asked how was the Upper Core or Aasgard.  I was surprised by the number of people who went up via Aasgard.  Opinions were consistent---many said it was tough up there.  There was deep snow in the Upper Core and at the top of Aasgard.  This made me happy about our choice to avoid it.  We did see an older gentleman and his son who were thru-hiking!  They said it was cold up there though.  So just beware if you decide to head up that way.]We awoke to brilliant sunrise orange on Prusik Peak and the Temple.  Then this fire color gave way to brilliant blue skies and fluorescent yellow larches.  My friend even caught a couple of trout here!  Don't get me wrong, we had a freezing night!  Our shoelaces, water filters, camel backs were all frozen.  We ended up spending quite the morning here until the sun could warm us up.  Then we finally & reluctantly packed up and headed out (with a tear running down our face).The hike down was surprisingly easy & we wisely decided to make camp early at Snow Lake (vs Nada).  We set up camp at the most awesome spot on Snow Lake.  I ended up catching 4 trout...kept only one.  And then we had the best meal of the trip (and probably the best one in all of the 509 Area Code that evening).  Snow Lake Dinner Menu:- Filleted Trout in a bourbon honey salt & pepper glaze- Whole Trout fried in a bourbon honey salt & pepper glaze & olive oil- Mashed Potatoes- Mac & Cheese- Chicken SaladCocktails: Old Fashioned & Cinnamon Tea with Rum.Sorry if we were loud that evening, but we had to party a bit after that meal, with music, and regales about our adventure.The next day we hiked out.  Right at the beginning we met seattlenative (aka Mike).  So cool to meet him, and have him join us for the hike out. Within steps we were all in awe of his light pack (think he said it was 28lbs...we had packs that averaged 42lbs at the beginning...mine was 49lbs!).  As we all know this hike is a steady and never-ending one.  We made the TH by about 3-4pm.  We then made it to Heidleburger shortly thereafter....and took it to go so we could eat with beers at Icicle Brewery!  Once again, The Enchantments left us wanting more.  Damn you Ms. Enchantment!!Left the Stuart Lake trailhead at 7am for enchantments in a day.  Found a little snow around 4500 ft but it really got deep as we rounded Colchuck Lake.There was already a foot path heading up Aasgard so we followed that route along with about 10 other groups. Footing was usually pretty good in 6 - 12 inches of snow but it was quite slippery on the rocks with just an inch or two of snow cover.  A lot of people slipped and fell in some sketchy spots -- lots of teamwork and offering of hands to get people up the steep steps.  A few people wore crampons or micro spikes and found them useful -- we did not.  Ice axes wouldn't have helped either.  Made it up to the top of Aasgard where the snow was 1 - 2 feet deep.  Again, there was a packed down foot path so it was easy to get across the flats except for a few steep slippery path.  Some lakes were frozen, but many were not.  There was plenty of flowing water for refills.Snow was deep until for a few more miles -- once you got into the forest (past most of the alpine lakes but before snowlake) the trail was snowy, wet and muddy.  Lots of slippery rocks to navigate and muddy water to trek through.  Gaiters and waterproof mountaineer boots were key to not having wet feet.  Poles were incredibly useful on the downhill as well.Snow lasted just past snow lakes -- then it was the final trek down to the cars, finishing just after dark.Totally doable in the snow -- just be comfortable on steep snow and slick rock.Our group of four set out from the Colchuck Lake trailhead at around 10:00 on 10/3 for two nights of permit camping in the core Enchantment Zone.  We reached Colchuck for lunch and certainly made note of what looked to be a half foot of snow on the ground.  After a quick bite we trudged around the lake through the snow-covered boulder field to the bottom of Aasgard.  We saw a couple groups that had already called it quits on Aasgard due to snow, but we were determined to see it for ourselves.  We followed some kicked steps up the intermediate bottom slope, sinking in deep spots through the talus.  At about a quarter of the way up, we hit the turn-around point of the prior group and our group started kicking steps.  The higher we got, the harder the going and deeper the snow.  It's hard to say how much snow there was, but some pockets came up to our wastes...all of us are around 6 feet tall.  Being the heaviest member of the group, I routinely post-holed in the steps of my climbing partners.  We made it about halfway up, about 6500 feet, before we realized there was not enough daylight to finish the exhausting ascent.  We headed back down Aasgard at around 4:30.  We made it half way in three hours.  After a bitter-cold night on the South Shore of Colchuck Lake, we were too cold and tired to make another attempt.  We saw another group of four heading up on our way out.  It looked like they would make it with the full day's light on their side.  They were about 2/3 of the way up as we bid farewell to Colchuck Lake.  Their steps should make the climb a bit easier.  If you go...take gaiters, traction, poles, possibly snowshoes, and leave yourself plenty of time to complete the ascent.  Mountaineers in better climbing shape should be able to finish with no problem, but casual backpackers need to be prepared for a very long day.Did not make it to the Enchantment Lakes, but I tagged them to give folks a heads up if they're looking for trail reports but didn't think to look at Colchuck/Snow Lakes or Aasgard Pass. More details below.Went to Colchuck Lake today on a Core Enchantments permit with a heavy pack for a few days but decided to not stay. The gate to the Forest Service road to the Stuart Lake TH is open. It was a cloudy and foggy afternoon. Rain turned to snow a little above 4000'. About 4-5 inches was on the ground at Colchuck Lake at 4PM--much of which fell Wednesday. Trail was easy to follow from the bootprints of a few other hikers, though the moderate to heavy snow at the lake was quickly covering the bootprints at the time I left. It wasn't slick, though that may change after a day of going above and dipping back below freezing.Entry into the Core Enchantment area via Aasgard Pass was *very* tricky today. From reports I heard on the trail, as much as 18" of new snow fell in some portions of the upper basin, though I never made it there to confirm such a number. There's quite a bit of snow (though not 18") on the way up to the pass from Colchuck. The snow has largely filled in or covered the talus--just enough so that it's hard to see where to place your next step, but not enough to keep you from accidentally stepping in a hole.If you have a late season Enchantments permit, prepare accordingly!We went on a 3-day 2-night backpacking trip to the Enchantment Lakes. The route we took was round trip from the Snow Lakes trailhead. We had a permit to the Snow Lakes region and we camped both the nights there. This was our first time, we were a group of 8 with minor backpacking experience and had all the intention to take our own time and use caution. We started at around 9:30 am and it took us over 7 hours to get to the upper Snow Lake. The hike is long but gradual. We took several breaks along the snow creek as well as Nada lake to ensure that we remained in good shape for the next day. On the second day we woke up with a foggy conditions with a slight drizzle (which lasted through the rest of the trip), and started our hike towards the enchantments region around 9:30 am. This portion of the hike is steeper than the one from trailhead to snow lake. There were several spots which required scrambling over granite rocks. At around noon we reached Lake Viviane the sight of which completely lifted our spirits. We headed on to Leprechaun lake, Sprite Lake and Perfection Lake. The beautiful views kept us oblivious of the drizzle, crazy winds and cold temperatures. We stayed at Perfection Lake until 2:30 before heading back towards our campsite to be make it in time before dusk.On the second night the rains were heavy and most of us were freezing due to wet clothing. In the morning, we quickly packed our stuff and started to head back towards the trailhead. This was the most grueling part of the trip, primarily due to the rain and the cold, and secondarily due to the fatigue and lack of expectations. We made it back to the trailhead in about 5 hours (a time that we were happy about). Overall all of us enjoyed the trip. The two things I would recommend is: 1. spare clothing if there's chance of rain/snow. 2. Spend more time to see more of the lakes (2 nights were good, but will be just about enough for strong hikers)So I know I'm posting this report a little late, but hopefully people next year will check it out as they plan their trips!Very first thing to note. This was a beautiful time to go, but it was COLD. Cold and windy. And the wind NEVER stopped, not till we reached the snow lakes. And my first fall backpacking trip. Normally I always bring too much warm stuff, but in this case, I'd say bring that extra stuff because you might actually need it. In my case, I need it all and then some. At the upper enchantments I believe it got into the mid/lower 30s. Also, remember to drink water because you don't always think to when it's cold. I got dehydrated and I was even trying (but I did drink significantly less water than normal despite this).Day 1: We started on a Wednesday at about ~10am from the Colchuck lake side. The weather was clear and nice. We camped at Colchuck lake the first day (right at the base of Aasgard pass). We were originally planning to do Aasgard as well, but realized that it would be dark in a couple of hours. I was pretty tired anyway, I don't think it would have been a good idea.  Day 2: Still clear, sunny weather! I'd say it took us over 5 hours to get to the top of the pass. It went much faster when we did it last August. Maybe because it was so cold (and I was dehydrated)? Once you stop moving, you get really cold, and it's hard to get moving again. And if you get hot, pouring water on your head is NOT an option (again, way too cold). There was a little ice on the top third of the pass, but overall it was pretty safe. The wind also made me a little nervous... if the gusts were a little larger, it could have been very dangerous on the pass. We finally reached the top and camped right by tranquil lake. It was beautiful but cold and windy. Didn't see any fish jumping.Day 3: We were originally going to spend 2 nights in the upper/lower enchantments, but the weather forecast (someone brought a radio - good idea) predicted a storm on Sunday, so we cut the trip down to end on Saturday (there is a steep area on the rocks near lake Vivian and you do NOT want to go down that in a storm). This day consisted of taking as many pictures as we could and reaching the snow lakes before dark. I was very sad that we couldn't spend more time in the upper enchantments, but we still had a great time seeing all the sights and taking pictures. The larches were just barely starting to turn gold, so it was a nice touch. There was only one place with snow on the trail this year, and it was pretty safe/flat (in the upper enchantments). We also saw lots of fish jumping in the lower enchantment lakes but unfortunately we weren't camping by those lakes. 3 from our group did Little Anapurna and saw some goats. They were able to meet us at the Upper Snow Lake campsite a couple hours after we got there. Snow lakes are nice, but it's hard to even compare them to the enchantments. We tried fishing for an hour or so before it was time for dinner, but didn't catch anything (didn't really see them jumping either). Camping on the lake beach was a BAD IDEA though. We should have kept looking for a campsite. We thought the wind had finally stopped, but then later that night there was a windstorm. It broke our neighbors tent. Heard the [...] screaming profanities at his friends, the lake and the enchantments ALL NIGHT LONG, at the top of his lungs, even after the storm ended, (there are less profanities in a Terrantino movie). In fact, while we were hanging our bear bag, our tent actually would have blown into the lake if we hadn't seen it and ran to catch it and drag it back up onto the hill. We ended up putting heavy rocks on the stakes that time, and made sure someone was inside at all times. That was terrifying... Not the best night to be honest. But my camera inside it didn't get smashed! Only a little scratched...Day 4: Partially cloudy and not too windy. It's a long way to the bottom from the snow lakes, even going downhill. I'd say it took us another 6 hours. Not as cold or windy. We ended the day by going out for burgers in Leavenworth! Best meal ever.Other notes: no bugs anywhere! There may have been a few going down toward Lake Nada but we were moving so fast I couldn't really tell. Also we didn't see ANY goats this year! Well, as I said, the 3 who did Annapurna saw 2, but that was it. Five of us did the Enchantment traverse in a day. We spent the night at the Eightmile Campground. We started the hike at 5am leaving a car at the Colchuck trailhead and Snow lakes trailhead.  All trails were in good shape. Going up Aasgard make sure you follow the cairns and do your best to follow the "trail". If you haven't done Aasgard Pass before read trip reports and trail guides as there are tips such as staying away from the waterfall area and off to the left. Also, keep an eye out for cairns in the Enchantment Lakes area as the trail sometimes is not easily seen. Having a map is can be helpful and is one of the ten essentials. We did the traverse in under 12.5 hours and it was well worth it. Aasgard pass was the most difficult section and we were able to complete the pass in under 1.5 hours. There are lots of water sources and plenty of good break spots. Make sure you bring a camera!  Oh and besides a few bees, we didn't see any bugs!Some friends scored a permit for the Enchantments this year, and I was fortunate enough to join them for the adventure. We chose to hike in on Friday morning, starting from the Colchuck Lake side in order to get Asgard Pass out of the way. Although it was only misting when we left the trailhead at 10:00AM, it was a full blown thurderstorm by the time we reached Colchuck Lake. At this point we took a brief break at the lake and discussed our options: (a) hunker down at Colchuck to wait out the storm or (b) push on to Asgard and hope that the storm would clear. We chose to do the latter.We crossed a large and rather precarious talus field before reaching the bottom of Asgard Pass. Looking up, with Dragontail Peak to our right, the view was on Asgard, albeit snow-free, was ominous. However, as we began the long, slow ascent, the thunder, lightning and rain gradually (and miraculously) began to dissipate. We followed other trip reports and stuck to the left side of the Pass. It was a serious thigh burner with lots of rock scrambling. But blue skies appeared when we reached the top of Asgard Pass, and we felt victorious. Found a great campsite Friday night on sandy Jiffy Pop beach with views of Little Annapurna. The rain held off long enough for us to make dinner and relax outside our tents for a few hours, but not quite long enough for our clothes to dry fully. The temperature dropped significantly in the evening. Even wearing every layer of clothing in my pack and snuggled inside my 30 degree rated sleeping bag I was still cold. I highly recommend making smart clothing choices if you plan to do an overnight in the Enchantments. Warm and quick drying layers and possibly a warmer bag are essential to a comfortable night's sleep. On Saturday, we woke to a fleeting but beautiful sunrise that illuminated Little Annapurna in soft pink light. A few mountain goats were seen roaming nearby. Unfortunately, the sunrise was followed by heavy rain that kept us in our tents for the majority of the morning - we played cards and read books to pass the time. Although the clouds never cleared on Saturday, the rain stopped long enough to allow us to pack up and head further down the trail into the Core Enchantment zone. The Core zone was socked in for all of Saturday, but the mist gave the landscape a magical, whimsical feel. We passed pristine lakes, waterfalls, tons of cartoonish looking mushrooms, chipmunks, log bridges, and barely visibly but dramatic peaks. After a few miles of hiking we dropped our packs and set up camp near Leprechaun Lake which proved to be a perfect spot on Sunday morning when the fog finally cleared. It was also an ideal spot for evening star gazing and night photography. We even saw a few shooting stars.After another bitterly cold night, we were greeted with spectacular blue skies and sunshine on Sunday morning. The rain the past two days had started to dampen our spirits, so the warmth and dry air was a welcome reprieve. We spent the morning backtracking through some of the Core zone we had missed due to the fog and lounging at the campsite. A few members of our group took a dip in the icy lake while my boyfriend fished for cutthroat trout. We all reconvened at camp around noon to have lunch and pack up. We started the remainder of the trek at around 1:00, and let me tell you, we underestimated how tough those last several miles would be. Once out of the Core zone you begin a gradual descent to the Snow Lakes that seems to go on forever. After a couple of miles you lose most of the gorgeous views and the trail becomes monotonous and grueling. By the time we reached the finish line, our knees, backs, toes, and heels were shot. Despite all that we were all full of joy over the feat we had just accomplished and the memories made.BOTTOM LINE: GO! You must experience this place for yourself. It is undoubtedly one of the most incredible places I've ever been. Bring warm layers, trekking poles, and a camera. Don't do this hike in one day. Some do, but I strongly believe you should spend some time up there to take in all the splendor. Highly recommend starting your journey with Asgard Pass. Starting from the Snow Lakes trail just seems like it would be a brutal and neverending uphill. Started at 6: 30 from the Stuart LK trailhead, finished at Snow Lakes Trailhead about 8:30. Beautiful but very long to do in one day. Saw many goats.Only one short section of snow to cross, no problem at all. Great hike to have under my belt.Scary, Stressful EnchantmentsHaving gone to the Enchantments several times in the past andconsidering it the most beautiful place on earth, I went again Aug24-27.  For some reason (perhaps because I am now in my late 50's orperhaps because I brought my wife and daughter) it seemed much morehazardess and stressful than I remembered it.  I would encouragepeople going there to have some experience with hikes that involvehaving to use hands to scramble, go in a group for safety, have goodbalance, and have some training in wilderness first aid.  This inaddition to being in good enough physical condition to be able to dothe 5000+ ft climb.The climb from Upper Snow Lake to Lake Vivian has many places in whichyou must use your hands to pull yourself up over granite.  Coming downis more difficult.  Add wet or snowy conditions and it is dangerous.From our campsite, we needed to climb just to reach the toilet.  I've been told that Asgard Pass route is even more hazardous than theSnow Lake route.  I just talked with someone who was there whensomeone was killed.  I've heard it is so steep that you can be hurtnot just by your own mistake, but by a mistake by someone on theswitchback above you.If you do hurt yourself, your options are few: I don't know how ahelicopter could help you if you broke an ankle on a cliff or inwoods.  I did meet one hiker who broke his ankle and he hobbled out 9miles on one leg and an ice ax, probably taking him many, many painfulhours.  Rangers were supposed to be in Enchantments, but I've neverseen one in all my trips there."Go slow and take it easy" is useful advice but only gets you so far.If you go really slow, then you don't make it before sundown so youare climbing in the dark which is even more dangerous.   I saw acouple trying to do it without gear and one flashlight.  It had gottendark and they had 8 miles to go--I hope they made it out ok.Really high winds came up several times at night making a deafeningroar and causing the tent to flag violently-- not conducive to arelaxing, peaceful sleep.  The goats are no longer shy--they havebecome so accustomed to humans that one girl told me she was buttedhard out of the way when she was trying to urinate (the goats want thesalt).Was it worth it?  Sure.  But we were lucky.  Hiking through the Enchantments in a day was my big goal for this summer, and yesterday I finally got the chance to do it. We left one car (stocked with a cooler full of watermelon and beverages) at the Snow Lakes trailhead, then drove the second car up to the Stuart Lake trailhead where we set off on our journey.Thankfully we made it 75% of the way up Aasgard before the sun hit us. All in all I felt surprisingly good going up to the pass (it's so much easier without a multi-day pack!), and when we crested the hill and took in the views of the upper lakes, I was ecstatic. I had spent so much time worrying about being in shape for this hike that I forgot the reason I was doing it in the first place - because this area is like a little slice of heaven. We are so lucky to live in a state with all these wonderful mountains.Anyhoo, after meandering around the upper lakes, we decided we felt good enough to add Little Annapurna since only two of us had been there before. Great choice, the view from up there was clearer than I've ever seen it before, not even any forest fire haze!The lower lakes were spectacular as always, but I had a slightly demotivating moment at Lake Viviane when I realized we still had 9 or so miles to go. The last part is particularly frustrating because you can see the trailhead (and picture that cooler full of watermelon) from miles away, but it never seems to get any closer. Still, we were all smiling proudly that evening during our celebratory meal at South in Leavenworth. This is an adventure I will definitely repeat!Notes:- GPS said 19.7 miles, 6000 feet gain (8000 feet loss, poor knees)- goats everywhere!- the toilets seemed less scenic than I remembered, but maybe I was just spoiled by the Sahale Glacier Camp loo earlier this summer- the trail up Aasgard was in better shape than the other times I've hiked it, but there are a couple of places with loose rocks and sand that require attention (more so if you're hiking down)- practically no bugs!Started our trip at the Stuart lake trailhead. Broke for lunch and a swim at Colchuck and started up Aasgard Pass at 2:00pm. There was no snow on the trail, but it was easy to loose the cairns. Took us almost 2.5 hours to get to the top with a few stops. Spent our first night along the chain of lakes just past Isolation lake. Although it was a Friday, there were plenty of campsites. There were lots and lots of goats (and many baby goats too). Mosquitoes were definitely out, but not bad enough to warrant a headnet. Even managed without using deet on the trip. Had a raging thunder, lightening, and hail storm that night...was really glad when morning arrived.Saturday we hiked on and took lunch at Perfection Lake after a quick trip up to Prusik Pass. Beautiful blue skies and nice temperatures (guessing in the mid 70's, but not sure). Most of the wildflowers were already gone. Saw lots of people going in both directions, and plenty of open sites. The trip down from Lake Viviane to Snow Lake was long, but again, plenty of open sites at Snow Lake. The water was warm enough for a nice swim. The mosquitoes here were worse, and chased us into our tent early. Another night of rain, but much less harrowing at the lower elevation.Sunday we hiked all the way out. The last stretch of the trip is hot and long, but it was by far the easiest 7 miles of the weekend.The long hikes in and out of the basin are totally worth the amazing scenery at the top!!Snuck away from work for a midweek overnighter in the Upper Enchantments. It had been a year since I'd backpacked anywhere, and too long since I'd been in this beautiful part of the Northwest.Here are the Cliff Notes of the trip:- Started at the Stuart Lake trailhead around 10am Tuesday morning. The parking lot had plenty of spaces midweek.- Mosquitos weren't bad as long as I kept moving, but the black flies found me five minutes into the hike and were relentless the entire trip (a small price to pay for such an amazing hike).- Took my time to Colchuck Lake and started up Aasgard around 1pm with 3L of water in my Camelbak. - Made it up Aasgard by 3:30pm, taking breaks along the way. No snow fields encountered. - Found an amazing campsite atop Aasgard Pass and decided to set up the tarp there.  Walked around the upper lakes where there was very little snow, a few groups of people, and swarms of flying critters.- Goats were numerous as expected. Had about six that hung out around my campsite all evening.- Hiked back down Aasgard, past Colchuck, and out Stuart Lake trailhead in the morning after a few sunrise photo opps.- Had gorgeous weather the entire trip. In the 50s at night and in the 70s during the day.- The trip made for some beautiful landscape photography. The views of the North Cascades from atop Aasgard were amazing and the stars at night were, well, enchanting.Given the choice I decided to come up the Snow Lakes trail as it offered more camping options considering my late start due to that work thing.  I hit the trail at 1:30 PM in 90+ heat.  For those not in the know, the initial part of this hike is up the old Icicle Burn and consists of 20 or so switch backs until you reach a level stretch.  The first camping opportunity comes up along Snow Creek in a cedar grove; I've not camped there but it appears to be quite nice.  Then you'll negotiate another 38 switchbacks to Nada Lakes.  There are a few campsites just after crossing the bridge.  I found all the camps deserted at Nada but continued on as I was making good time.  I arrived at Snow Lakes and was disappointed to see that the FS has already dropped the water level 8 or so feet.  All the campsites at Snow Lakes were also deserted which I found rather surprising.  I decided to head on up to at least Lake Vivian and took about an hour to negotiate the slab rocks and steep trail which is still very well marked.  Arriving at Lake Vivian I found it too to be deserted.  Now, the biggest surprise of all; there were very few mosquitos compared to the last time I was up here when swarms almost drove us out.  I did not apply any bug repellant this entire trip and did not use a headset!  There are some green eyed flys that bite hard but they are slow and easy to kill; present them with an arm and kill em when they land.  Now comes the most scenic and enjoyable part of the hike up to Leprechaun Lake where I found no one camping. The place was literally deserted - don't get me wrong, I'm not complaining just surprised.  I decided to keep trucking to the high Enchantments as I was making good time and there was still a lot of daylight to burn.  When I reached the high basin I stopped and set up camp for the next three nights.  The next morning there were some campers across the little stream from me and I learned later that they'd come up Aasgaard Pass arriving around midnight.  The climb up Little Anapurna was pretty straight forward.  You just keep going straight up and occasionally you'll find a cairn.  No need to set foot on snow this time of the year to make this summit.  Then it was down the west ridge to the col between the little peak below Anapurna and the south ridge of Dragontail.  The col was full of summer snow and a very easy walk over.  I went up on snow as far as I felt comfortable without crampons and then hopped onto rock.  About 100 feet below the ridge I traversed over to an exposed rock finger and found the going rather easy (upper class three scramble) mostly on rock to the ridge.  The rest of the way to Dragontail was a walkup.  Occasionally stick your head through the notches for some amazing, amazing views.  The Dragontail summit is rather small; actually it's really just a small point above a little platform.  The views from up there are stupendous.  I could see Adams, Ranier, Glacier, Stewart, Colchuk, and Baker on an awesome, windless, clear day.  This was my best experience with the Enchantment Lakes as the temperatures were mild, there were relatively few biting insects, the fish were cooperative, and the night time and morning temps were comfortable.  Given that I had never stopped at Nada Lakes except to take on water I decided to stop there on the way out to prolong my wilderness experience.  That place actually has a lot going for it were it not for the fact that it is just a teaser for the high enchantments.  When I left there Friday morning there was not one, single campsite available!  Ah, the weekend.  Glad I don't have a day job.  There were absolutely no trail issues - no mud, no snow, no difficult crossings, no blowdowns.  Only minor problem was the wildflowers appear to have peaked out for this season.  We left for Colchuck Lake with a friend visiting us from another state. Took my husband and I about 2 1/2hrs to get to Colchuck. Our friend took 4hrs. We were concerned about his physical condition, so instead of going up asgard pass and camping in the Enchantments, we stayed at Colchuck lake. Bugs were swarming us, but weren't that big of a deal. I just put on a jacket and pants, and lightly sprayed with bug spray. In the morning we headed up Asgard, and our friend headed back to the car. He admitted he didn't train for this trip at all, and suffered the consequences of not being able to join us in the Enchantments. It took us 2hrs to get over the pass. It was a lot easier than I thought it would be. We hiked straight through to the Snow Lake trail head. It was quite a slog! Took us 10hrs, and we only stopped a few times to rest and eat. The Enchantments were beautiful and the goats were everywhere! It was our first trip there and we'll definetly to back!We did a 4-day out and back to the Enchantments, with a Snow Zone permit.  There were 4 in our group: my husband, my cousin from San Fran, and my 16 year old cousin (first backpacking trip).  We left Seattle around 8:30 am, and made it ready to hike to the trailhead around noon or so.  We started out at the Snow Lakes trailhead, temperature was around 90 degrees - hot and dry.  The first couple of miles were an uphill slog and fairly exposed, and all of us were feeling the heat. It'd be best to aim to do this part of the trail in the early morning, when the heat hasn't built up too much yet. We overpacked yet again - on this trail, you definitely need to evaluate every single item that goes in your pack, as the ~6000 ft elevation gain feels worse if you're packing an extra 5 or 10 pounds!   At about 2 miles up, there is a sheltered grove of trees along the river - this is a great place for a handful of gorp and a quick fill-up of water.  The trail is then dry again until another 2 miles or so at the bridge crossing. The trail then gets a bit more shady, but still keeps switchbacking up until you get to Nada Lake at about 6 or so miles.  We camped here for the night - there is a great, flat campsite with nearby toilet just across from the first "Day Use Only" area you come across.  There is also another nice, flat camp just down the trail a little bit (maybe 5 minutes) that looked lovely as well.  The bugs - well, they were pretty horrendous, especially at the toilets.  There were biting flies, mosquitoes, and no-see-ums at Nada Lake. Only the 100% DEET Jungle Juice seemed to temporarily help - the bugs just laughed at some of the weaker repellents we brought (7% DEET did not work at all!).  But a small price to pay for such a beautiful view!! The next day, we had an easy day - we slept in, and lolly-gagged our way up the trail to Lower Snow lake. Cloud cover rolled in, and the temps were much more agreeable - I'd say in the mid-70's to low 80's. We saw our first mountain goat about half-way along Nada Lake - it was a mama and her kid. They seemed sublimely uninterested in us. The hike up to Snow Lake had one small (30 minute or so) rocky uphill section, but not bad.  Snow Lakes were also very buggy - mainly biting flies and mosquitoes.  At the dam, we saw about 8 or so more mountain goats, what looked like more mamas with kids.  There are some nice campsites at the dam area, just off the trail to the left as you are approaching the lakes.  We made our way up to the top of Snow Lake, and grabbed one of the last open campsites, in time for a quick swim.  The water was about 60 degrees - chilly but not so cold it hurts! These camps were a little more dusty - we found the campsites with pine needles were less dusty and a little more enjoyable than ones without pine needle groundcover.  At all three of our campsites there were plenty of trees for us to hang our food in - it looks like some of the sites up in the Enchantments might not have nearby food-hanging trees available. After a night at upper Snow Lake, we dropped our packs, grabbed our daypacks (which we packed inside our big packs), and headed up the third day for our day hike into the Enchantments. The clouds were also in for this hike, temps were in the 70's.  It took us about 2.5-3 hours to get from the top of Snow Lake up to Lake Viviane.  As others have mentioned, this is rocky, steep, with some low-level bouldering necessary.  Stay alert and watch for cairns - easy to loose the way.  The view of Lake Viviane at the top of the climb was 100% worth it, though!!  This section would have been very tough with our heavy packs - if you choose to through hike, definitely err on the side of less weight. We made our way to Perfection Lake and grabbed the best peanut butter and honey sandwich I have ever had (must be the scenery!) and then decided to head back, as the sky looked ominous and the wind was picking up.  The return trip back to Snow Lake was almost as difficult going down as going up - we took it slow and careful, and had no problems with either the route or our knees/legs.We picked our gear back up from our upper Snow Lake campsite, and moved back down to a campsite at the lower lake.  On both upper and lower Snow Lake, there are a couple of osprey that you can watch fish for their dinner.  The fish in the lakes around dusk were hopping out of the water to catch bugs. Very entertaining.Our final day, we were awakened by a herd of mountain goats clip-clopping through camp. We made the downhill trek from lower Snow Lake to the Snow Lakes trailhead in about 3-3.5 hours, with one 20-minute break at the grove of cedars near the river. The day started out chilly (low 50's maybe) and was 85 degrees back at the carpark.Things I packed but didn't need: extra fleece (it wasn't that cold at night, maybe lows in the 50's), long underwear, extra food, gaiters, bear canister (bear bags were just fine), 7% DEET, extra fuel (for four people using boiled water for dehydrated dinners and oatmeal for breakfast, we used 1.5 8-oz canisters in 4 days/3 nights)Things I wish I had packed: hat with bug netting, 100% DEET, swimsuitThings I'm glad I packed: extra toilet paper (no TP at the toilets), steripen, collapsible bucket, long-sleeved sunblocking shirtWe will definitely be applying for a permit again next year! Awesome, awesome experience!Met a group coming out of the Enchantments.  They gave up two days of their permit.  The bugs were unbearable.We unfortunately only had a 1 night permit to camp in the Core Zone so this was a quick in-and-out via Asgard Pass. The conditions were wonderful and we hardly encountered any snow, just small patches that were easily crossed with hiking boots. Weather was amazing; hot during the day and not colder than mid forties in the upper basin at night. Many many goats at the top of Asgard Pass and throughout the lakes.The upper basin was bug-free but descending into the middle and lower lakes provided a bounty of flies and mosquitoes. We did not descend all the way but heard reports that Snow Lake was the worst. Would highly recommend setting up camp at higher elevation. Don't forget bug spray and/or long layers.The pictures speak for themselves. Do not pass up this trip if you have the opportunity.Trip plan was to hike to Colchuck Lake on Day 1.  Ascend Aasgard, hike the Enchantment Lakes and descend Aasgard on Day 2.  Hike out from Colchuck on Day 3.Leavenworth Ranger Station reported Aasgard as 99.9% snow free. Met a friend at the Snow Lake trailhead that told me the pass was clear of snow. He recommended I leave crampons and ice ax behind to save on weight as they would not be needed for Aasgard or Enchantment Lakes. Report at trailhead says that pass is 50% snow covered, must be weeks out of date.As of July 8th, there was only one patch of snow to cross on the marked Aasgard route.  It is about 60 feet across with maybe 20 feet of run out.  Icy in the morning, slush in the afternoon.  Nothing to warrant carrying an ice axe, in my opinion.Enchantment Lakes are mostly still ice and snow although melting fast.  Upper Lakes are 80-90% covered. Lower Lakes are better but still 50-75% covered.  Water is running over the falls but mostly under the snow.  All the snow was slush in afternoon.  Would strongly recommend sun glasses and sun screen.Hiked up Colchuck lake Friday evening and camped near the boulder field just before Aasgard.  Stargazed that night until the sun started coming up (literally), so we had a late start Saturday morning.  Made it up Aasgard in a few hours with one minor snow crossing and plenty of goats waiting for us on top.  We decided to set up camp early at the base of Annapurna and hike to the summit Sunday morning.  The sunrise Sunday morning was one of the best I've seen.  The trek up Annapurna was not too difficult and we were able to avoid the snowfields until the very top.  We didn't have ice axes but felt comfortable hiking the summit as the snow was soft and there were tracks to follow.  There was still plenty of snow in the upper core enchantments and the lakes still had quite of bit of ice, especially Isolation lake.  We were hoping to summit Cannon mountain but were short on time so we might have to do another trip later this summer.  There was a thunderstorm on our way down that passed within 15-20 minutes and then came the mosquitoes.  They were everywhere, it seemed like bug spray didn't even help.  Counted 14 bites.All in all this was a great trip, we were able to see some beautiful lakes as well as Rainier and Glacier peak from the top of Annapurna.  There were also plenty of goats and marmots running around.  Be careful around the goats.  They act harmless and most of the time they are, but are also very protective of there young ones.June is a wonderful time to do the Enchantments! My friend and I took the Colchuck Lake/Aasgard Pass approach, and came away thinking that this approach is well worth the effort, as we were rewarded with flat or downhill hiking for 13 of the 18 miles. If you are attempting Aasgard this early in the summer I strongly advise crampons and an ice axe for the ascent, it makes a fairly dangerous trek into a very manageable one. Snow was also definitely an issue as it is covered much of Aasgard and the near entirety of Alpine Lakes, but with snowshoes, a great time is sure to be had. We were nearly alone and saw only three others from a distance the first day. In fact, our main company was a herd of mountain goats that ran us out from a spectacular perch overlooking The temple and other peaks. Temperatures were in the high 50's which may seem cold for June, but felt excellent until we stopped hiking for the day. We camped right by the Temple and enjoyed solace and great views. Day 2 we hiked out and encountered a little trouble. To get around Lake Vivianne we were forced to cross a snow bridge over a fast creek, but this was a probably a result of us not really following the trail. After Temple Lake the trail was well marked by cairns and we started the long descent. After miles of downhill trail hiking we came to the conclusion that we never want to enter through Snow Lake and encounter the same trail uphill. All in all a wonderful trip, some bouldering was necessary and the snow created a couple challenges that every one may not like, but for the most part it was very manageable and more importantly, beautiful! Went for an overnight trip in the enchantments.  A through hike would have been preferred but was not able to make it happen.  Have not been up to the enchantments via colchuck lake or aasgard pass so we decided to venture up that way.  No snow at the trail head and only spots of it here and there all the way up to the lake.  Colchuck is snow free except for a few random spots.  Decent day no precipitation but did have clouds lingering overhead.  Temps at Colchuck were probably in 40's and down to the low 30's at the top of Aasgard pass. Aasgard was quite the thigh burner with not much snow until about 6500-7000 feet where we began to post hole. Longest mile of my life ha.  Snowshoes would have been nice once in the enchantments, though we did ok without.  Had some strong winds that night but not much in the way of snow fall if any.  Our snowman began melting by morning so it had warmed up a bit maybe mid 30's.  Morning brought fog and clouds, the place was socked in and did not allow for much visibility or picture taking, however it was all fun still.  Hiked out Sunday morning and made our way back to Seattle. Saw 0 hikers saturday and 20 hikers sunday on our way out.  Had the enchantments all to ourselves saturday as far as we know, rare feat.  Larches in full glory of color change!The area is dry, thankfully with plenty of lakes it is always easy to get to a water source.Some of the most intense concentration of Larches is across from Lake Leprechaun.HIKERS BEWARE! If you're planning on reaching the Core Enchantments and only spending one night, DON'T! Foolishly, I did this and not only did I miss out on seeing the Upper Enchantments, it physically exhausted me more than ever in my entire life. 18 miles and 6,000 ft of elevation (not counting a morning hike to Inspiration Lake) in two days will certainly do the job. However, it was absolutely worth the pain!Once you step foot into the lower Enchantment Basin it feels and looks as if you arrived on another planet. The white granite, teal waters, and golden larches leave you with visions you'll never forget.I started hiking from the Snow Lake Trailhead at 9:45 am and after a very long and grueling hike (as described above) arrived at Lake Viviane around 4:00 pm. The hike up the Snow Creek valley is fairly uneventful until you reach Nada Lake at 5,000 ft. Watch carefully for the cairns once you start the trek from Snow Lake to Lake Viviane. I lost my way after looking down for too long and finally ended up at Temple Lake instead. The weather couldn't have been better. Recommend to anyone that's in decent shape. Don't underestimate this hike.The route:Aasgard through to Snow Lk trail head. Larch are turning, yes its a hard hike, but so worth it. We stayed 2 nights in the upper and then 1 at Inspiration and 1 at Leprechaun. nine miles out to the trail head. The Eight mile fire closed the door behind us, so we pretty much had the enchantments to ourselves. What a place !With names like Jabberwocky Tower, Dragon Tail, Little Annapurna, The Witches Tower, Leprachaun Lake, Gnome Tarn and Aasgard Pass, it conjures up images of JRR Tolkien's books, The Lord of the Rings and it in deed looks like a place right out of those books.I have visited a few places around the world, whether they where tropical or alpine or something in between, this place ranks at the top for pure beauty, I think this is Mother Nature's finest piece of work.In trying to describe this place, one would imagine themselves being dropped on an alien planet similar to ours, yet with things a tad different, yet untouched by by anything unnatural.Ross Beano, Rolo, and myself made up the team for this week long backpack in the Enchantments. Heavenly. We had planned to enter via Asgard Pass taking the Snow Lake route out, but the Colchuck trailhead was closed due to fires in the Eight Mile Road area so we changed our route to Snow Lakes in and out. The trailhead was smokey when we started out, but we were hoping to get above this once in the basin. Our first night was spent at Snow